Reading 3: Foamspace

An art installation in the heart of New York City, Foamspace was a means of bringing the technology of blockchaining and the currency of Bitcoin to the physical realm. Using Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) geoblocks, the artist created a visual metaphor for the blockchain involving Bitcoins, which is “a decentralized and cryptographic public ledger that allows for peer-to-peer monetary settlements without a third party.” For those who visited the piece, they were given a token called a “Foamspace Coin”, allowing them to become members of the blockchain as an asset to be traded. Foamspace then recorded the value created during this time to organize a new group of artists and creators to develop the next stage of the project. 
At the dimensions of 37” x 49.5” x 97.5” the Foamspace installation was created from the Geofoam blocks. Prior to the event, a group of people were given access a “digital wallet” which held all of the currency used to purchase these blocks, and individuals were given additional coins by the server without their knowledge. On the day of the event, the blocks were delivered, leading to a deluge of people flooding the installation, leading to the community growing larger than it ever had. Different sectors began to emerge, such as performance stages, workshop spaces, info kiosks, and several smaller installations within the festival itself. This temporary architecture was designed to bring people together in a place which would cause the most conversation, and would therefore lead to more circulation of currency. The draw is when the time is up, it all goes away, leading people to want to see it as much as possible before it disappears forever. 
In my opinion, this is a very confusingly written piece, as it is hard to follow the logic of the construction of the piece itself. Are the people in the wallet who were given special access donating to pay for the installation? Bitcoin mining is a very common practice these days, especially with the recent GPU mining scandal which occurred just this past summer, so I can only assume this is what happened. I can understand the draw such a piece would bring, however, as it is tempting to want to visit and interact with something you know will be gone so quickly. The visual representation of the process allows to realize the kind of impact we have by generating an online community and making these spaces, which allow for an increase in interactivity.  Overall, it is a great piece, which exemplifies the power an online community can have not for itself, but for the world around it as well. 
