<br  />Foamspace is a piece of installation art in New York City hosted by several art institutions in the city.  The installation uses EPS geofoam blocks, a material that is used for many construction projects. The blocks were put up along a street and created some kind of venue, and those that funded it were invited in. At the venue, some treated the blocks as a performance stage, or used it as a kiosk to teach thing to people. What makes this project interesting is the fact that it was funded using blockchain technology. Blockchain technology is usually associated with cryptocurrency. When creating Foamspace, a digital wallet was created for its community members. Members were given “Foamspace coin” for being part of the community. Since blockchains were being used, everyone could see how the Foamspace coins were distributed. The wallet was also able to send coin to each member to cover any future transaction fee. This feature was set up so that those that were not familiar with bitcoin transactions were able to participate.  
<br  />What makes the use of blockchaining so special in the Foamspace project is that it creates a way to crowdsource architecture projects with full transparency. It would be interesting to see this type of crowdsourcing in other projects that need transparency such as Kickstarter projects. One of the problems with Kickstarter projects is that sometimes the developer has problems releasing the product. Some say the Kickstarter funds may have been abused for other purposes besides the project. With the transparency of blockchains, we can fully see where all the money is going towards. This would also be good in government funding projects to see if taxpayer money really is put to good use.  
<br  />On the art installation side of things, it was interesting to see the community members used the blocks.  I would like to know the way some people acted. For example, the person running the kiosk. Did they plan that ahead of time or was that all improvised? The same goes for all the other “acts.” Did the members of the community what the whole project was before hand or did everyone go into this blind and had a natural reaction? It was interesting to see the artistic use of EPS geofoam blocks, since it both represented the unseen side of infrastructure and the use of bitcoins and blockchains. 
