<heading> Reading 3 Response </heading> <p> </p>

<body> From what I just read, this Foamspace project was a combination of art/architecture with the blockchain system. Originally, the blockchain system was used for bitcoin to create a greater sense of value where that bitcoin can be monitored and be untampered with. Foamspace took that system and made it physical through these huge styrofoam blocks. With blockchain, it gave these styrofoam value and had transactions through mobile devices. I personally don’t fully understand how all these transactions and value worked for this but it looked like it created a sense of interest for the community. <p> </p>
	
	As an art student, this was quite interesting to see art fusing with other systems and ideas. I don’t have the complete understanding as I mentioned before but thinking about this more, Foamspace gave out more exposure to the community and world about the blockchain system. Weather or not blockchain is better than our current currency system, I can see this system being implemented more in the future. There would be less hacking (assuming), stealing, and fake transactions involved. The so-called item would be monitored and be trusted more. Similar to the foam transactions in this project. Though I have no clue what was traded within the transactions or what the person got from trading his foam piece away. Overall, it been like 8 years since this system been out. Now it is just growing more and more into the mainstream eye. 
</body>
