In the "Value Slips Away" article, it talks about Foam Space and its concept as well as its idea. Author Ryan John King and Zavyalova started by giving a brief description regarding Foamspace itself which reflects on the connection between decentralized infrastructure and the creation of the developed environment. In addition, they also mention that the installation consisted wholly of a chain of factory-standard Expanded Polystyrene, also known as EPS, geofoam blocks, working as a visual metaphor for the Bitcoin blockchain that is a decentralized public ledger that allows for peer-to-peer monetary settlements without a third party. 
Furthermore to what the authors stated in the article is when blockchain was first introduced by the cryptographic digital currency Bitcoin. The blockchain records all activity on the network in chronological order on a public ledger. Besides, which to me was quite interesting to know about was that in other words, as a peer-to-peer time stamping technology, it enables cryptocurrency to offer a decentralized and mobile means to track, store and distribute information about economic value and exchange on the Bitcoin network. 
Moreover, in the article, the authors mention about "Wallet," a free digital “wallet” was created before the installation of Foamspace and any individual could sign up for this wallet in order to receive a unique address and receive a Foamspace Coin, which could then be exchanged and tracked on the Bitcoin blockchain—serving as a token of membership in the virtual community.
Eventually, after watching the shorts videos and finishing the article,  the projects that they created is going to introduce smart contracts to the profession, performing as a platform for self-initiating and crowd funding architecture plans, diffusing shares of equity in the built environment and as written in the article itself, projecting the safety and clarity of the Etherum blockchain.
