In the article, “Value Slips Away,” Ryan John King and Ekaterina Zavyalova talk about the 2015 art installation Foamspace. Foamspace was an interactive piece that tried to describe the “relationship between decentralized infrastructure and the production of the built environment.” They did so by created a physical metaphor of a blockchain technology  along the streets of New York City. The blocks were made of Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) geofoam blocks and were unchanged; allowing them to be sold back later on. Passerbys would be encouraged to sign up for the digital wallet made for the installation and receive a “Foamspace coin” which would then be recorded to the blockchain. The wallet and the transactions tracked were displayed to the public. The installation lasted for 2 hours. During that time, participants were able to exchange coins in order to understand the technology, while others used the space as a community lounge.

From this article, it’s an interesting take on informing the public on the advantages and uses of blockchains and bitcoins by not only using a digital space, but also help other see it visually through a physical space. The idea the project goes for is to have people make transactions and rewarding them for maintaining the network with small fees; it brings a sense of connection and an idea of community helping each other. However, I felt that this installation would have been confusing to a general audience. Even more so, that most people who had participated with the bitcoin aspect of the piece were those who were a part setting up the installation, or people who were actually interested in the idea or had knowledge of what block chaining was. From the timelapse videos in the article, most people used the installation as a place to sit rather that understanding the purpose of the project. 
