In the article “Value Slips Away,” author Ryan John King and Ekaterina Zavyalova introduce an art piece called “Foamspace”. It is an installation art that built for 2015 IDEAS City Festival and aim to present an invisible community in a city. The installation are presented by blocks, which are located in the center of a city. These blocks create different spaces, such as performance space, stage, workshop space that allow interactive communication between each member participating within the blocks. Members in the community could sign up for a digital “wallet” in order to obtain an digital address and a Foamspace Coin. Anyone in the community could see how there Foamspace Coins are being tracked, stored and distributed as they participate in the community. The material of this art project is made of EPS geofoam blocks, which are usually used in construction project. At the end of the festival, the blocks are sold back to construction project which represents the material used for this art piece is a block sale as well. 

The idea of Foamspace is based on bitcoin blockchain. It represents the invisible community, like the authors describe in the article that it is a “visual metaphor for the Bitcoin Blockchain,” which allows people to see how a digital payment system takes place between users directly without a third party. Bitcoin, the new type of worldwide cryptocurrency, is probably not going to become the mainstream digital currency because it may have tax and regulatory problems. However, it has some unsolved problems that Ethereum can improve because Ethereum is a smart contract that enables developers to build decentralized applications.

I think this article is a little bit confusing because there are so many technical knowledge not defining in the article. I did not know blockchain before and Even though I still have so many confusions about blockchain, I think this installation art project is a good idea to show people how blockchain works in our community. The installation of the art project is very creative and bring up a lot of thinking and questions related to the newest technologies.
