The Invisible City represented the blockchain mode in a visible way, showed the world the what is this new peer-to-peer time stamping technology, with foamspaces installations. The digital currency system--Bitcoin is right based on this network. Seems this fast, agile, worldwild and transparent currency is leading to a new era of economic exchanges system. However, in my opinion, I don’t think the Bitcoin is matural enough to become our future ecomomic activities platform. Not only because to understand Bitcoint really need to study, (study how it works, the technical stuff), but also because there will hardly have certain goverments that willing to give up the power of currency control and currecy issuance. Espeially in some political and economic integration countries such as China. 

On Sep, 30th, 2017, China just shut down all the transaction services. The Chinese government treat the Bitcoint as a threat to the whole political-economic system, and an illegal, underground trading method. Because the so-called Bitcoin trading services in China, completely betrayal the spirit of Bitcoin----Decentralization. They are basically functioning like: 
The Bitcoin buyers transfer their legal currency to the service center (It’s actually a private account); the Bitcoin sellers transfer their Bitcoins to that service center (It’s actually a private account), then the service account will have lots of legal currency and Bitcoin. And the service center is the trading recorder as well. If the buyer or the seller don’t pick their legal currency or Bitcoin out, the legal currency and the Bitcoin will stay in the service center forever. If the service center announce it get hacked and run away with all the money. Both buyers and sellers don’t have any way to protect their rights. 

This is a typical risk of a centralization--Once the center get a problem, all the things are done. If so, the design of Bitcoin will be meaningfulness. So far the authority in China only has one solution: Shut down the whole thing.

The human society is complex. This economic system is still too early for this. But anyways, the design of Bitcoin is still a successful experience of decentralization. Maybe in the future, after it become more matural, or after our society developed, the Bitcoin era will truely come.
