Social media is a virtual communication platform where one can interact with another by sharing status, images, videos and other content in a way to exchange ideas. However, is it really a proper and effective way to communicate with others? Currently, in 2017, the most commons ones are Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn and many others. Nowadays, people are becoming more addicted to social media than ever before. It commences the minute someone gets a device with a screen that has a social media platform installed or simply by one person who influenced others by just showing something from their social media profile.

There have been some questions across the internet concerning how to earn money from YouTube, what kind of content or videos can be monetized, how to become a famous YouTuber and other questions relating to YouTube and making money. But the principal question to ask is how YouTube works, what does it really consist of, and how its environment is. Many individuals just don't care about the dark side of social media platforms and think that it would be a waste of time to ascertain. This obscure side can be quite dangerous since they could be hiding a lot of confidential information that they do not want to share publicly. One of the dark sides relates to monetization, an important factor that many social media users are not aware of. 

Monetization is the conversion of an asset or any object to money. (Investopedia 1). Its meaning also varies on which context we use it. In the social media context, to monetize is to acquire money through online intercommunication or simply from any social media platform. YouTube is a relevant example as many people make tons of money through social interactions locally and internationally.
