(Stacey)

Online news has become a new way to learn about the latest events going on in the world. Access to news articles has become easier than ever, thanks to being able to find information online. In addition, lots of news articles have been moved to social media sites, such as Facebook and Twitter. But what exactly qualifies as quality news and news that spout nonsense? With the help of a system called monetization, posting news has been easier. As a result, a lot of fake news articles have become viral for many viewers all over the Internet. Fake news articles are just as they sound, they are articles that sound like news, but with no given proof. These news articles make money depending on the amount of views. Since viewers can’t tell the difference between fake news and real news, the fake news begin to manipulate the audience into believing it. Monetizing news on social media has become a common practice to get attention and money, while it manipulates the viewers into believing it.
	When searching the web, there’s always something that’s going to catch the attention of the viewers. One of those things that catch the viewers’ attention is fake news. According to the article, News in an Online World: The Need for an “Automatic Crap Detector”, the authors Yimin Chen, Niall J. Conroy, and Victoria L. Rubin states that “the current state of online information is one of overload with many competing sources of varying quality…” Online news is practically everywhere. It is shown on websites and has been pushed on to the social media. With the use of online resources like’s social media, fake news is one of the easiest things to be found one social media. In fact, a lot of this type of news can be shared and sponsored through with the use of monetizing. Monetizing news articles can make access to fake news articles easy. According to the authors, Chen, Conroy and Rubin mentioned that, “the online media economy is largely based around monetization of “views” through advertising revenue.” Using monetization makes the sponsors for these news articles very appealing to look at. Images, large headlines and even have all caps, just to grab the attention of the viewers. However, fake news can also behave like regular news articles. The differences of the articles are so subtle that someone might not be able to tell the difference. Any news about the government or the president is some of the common topics for fake news. Since political news is the easiest to go viral online, a lot of fake news sites cater to this type of news to make revenue. An article called, The Dark Side of Display: How “Fake News” Sites Monetize their Content, the author Bradley Nickel mentions how these sites monetize their content so easily. He mentions that” the best strategy that paid off though, was to get real people – like Trump fanatics or even the real media –to latch on to the stories and spread them to their own networks.” As the news gets spread the more views the fake news gets. Like advertising, more views results in more money. And unfortunately, most viewers most likely looked at the header without reading the content of the article, falling into the trap. 
	Most of these fake news articles are mostly spread on social media; some might even call it the main source for the spread of fake news. In Jonathan Albright’s article Welcome to the Era of Fake News mentions, “…thirdparty applications allow the rapid amplification of emotionally-charged messages across platforms such as Twitter. This strategic distortion of attention can hasten the spread of misinformation and the establishment of ‘alternative facts’.” The use of social media has created an environment of false information. Since, these articles quickly spread on these platforms and usually acts as clickbait, one has to consider whether or not these articles are truly harmful to viewer. 


(Rajeev)

Social media is a virtual communication platform where one can interact with another by sharing status, images, videos and other content in a way to exchange ideas. However, is it really a proper and effective way to communicate with others? Currently, in 2017, the most commons ones are Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn and many others. Nowadays, people are becoming more addicted to social media than ever before. It commences the minute someone gets a device with a screen that has a social media platform installed or simply by one person who influenced others by just showing something from their social media profile.

There have been some questions across the internet concerning how to earn money from YouTube, what kind of content or videos can be monetized, how to become a famous YouTuber and other questions relating to YouTube and making money. But the principal question to ask is how YouTube works, what does it really consist of, and how its environment is. Many individuals just don't care about the dark side of social media platforms and think that it would be a waste of time to ascertain. This obscure side can be quite dangerous since they could be hiding a lot of confidential information that they do not want to share publicly. One of the dark sides relates to monetization, an important factor that many social media users are not aware of. 

Monetization is the conversion of an asset or any object to money. (Investopedia 1). Its meaning also varies on which context we use it. In the social media context, to monetize is to acquire money through online intercommunication or simply from any social media platform. YouTube is a relevant example as many people make tons of money through social interactions locally and internationally.


(Wen)

According to the article “Fake news: What exactly is it – and can it really swing an election?” by
James Titcomb and James Carson, fake news comes in multiple variants, such as Commercially-driven sensational content, Nation state-sponsored misinformation, Highly-partisan news sites, Social media itself, Satire or parody. They come from different motives and different actors which make it very difficult to counter fake news. Some fake news distorts or exaggerate the main idea of truth and make it reachable to the widest audience. For example, The Times points out that “Dying Hillary Says She Just Wants to Curl Up and Never Leave Her House Again After Defeat.” It does sound like the fact that Clinton say she wanted to curl up with a book after the election except the dying part. In the article “The Dark Side of Display: How ‘Fake News’ Sites Monetize their Content,” author Bradley Nickel states that, “most fake news sites are illegal, and we don’t condone these activities either. They neither provide value nor build a solid business over the long term.” Some online fake news is easy to spot either through the lack of design of the website or poor gramma; some others are blend in and even more influential to the public. Especially, many clickbait articles use sensational headlines to gain advertising revenue, regardless the authenticity of the news. When people read fake news on the Internet, it will affect people’s judgement and their knowledge of the truth. 

The authenticity of online news is now very difficult to tell. People could spot fake news through checking the URL, the source, photos, dates, evidence, or look at other reports to see if they are reporting the same story. However, it is very difficult to prevent and reveal facts because the fake news could be produced for many reasons in many ways, either intentionally or unintentionally, through planning to achieve the purpose or by paying to spread the news. The current system of news discovery and content ranking, which involves links, likes and upvotes, is in fact broken and easily manipulated by third party platforms, such as Facebook, Twitter and Google. Even though Google says it will ban fake news websites from using its advertising service, and Facebook updated its policy language saying that it will not display ads in sites running fake news, they actually cannot solve the problem. A reality of this issue may be the nature and the profit systems of the platforms that carry the news. 

Distributed ledger technology like blockchain could be the closest technology to being able to solve the fake news problem by changing the way organizations collect and store data. A distributed ledger system could also be used to help us check our confirmation biases in response to fake news. A decentralized version of Google or Facebook would be like a Yelp for news media, with experts who score platforms on their integrity, as well as crowd-contributed ratings. 

Decentralized content and publishing can help solve the fake news problem, build trust and security, and provide the new online ecosystem of information.

It will help improve the quality and diversity of online content by rewarding writers for producing great content and encourage more people to join the platform. Different from traditional advertising and subscriptions, ethereum blockchain can help create new business model opportunities for content publishers, developers, and users. Like the new company Userfeeds aims to stop fake news by developing token-based communities through incentivizing curators of content; by building an incentive-based system, it will allow digital content to be backed by cryptocurrency tokens. The tokens can be tradeable for other currencies so content creators and curators can generate revenue for sharing authenticated content. This will program incentives and enable the guardians for the authenticity of news. 

Journalism plays under the rules of advertising, increases revenue through clicks. With identity layer and transparent ledger, blockchain could make advertising fraud harder to propagate undetected. 
