The article, Towards a Poetics of Artificial  Superintelligence by Nora N. Khan, begins with an exercise  in imagination. The reader is asked to imagine  a so-called “super intelligent being” that can exist in any form the reader wishes. We are asked to imagine that this being has access to, and a super human understanding of, everything and anything within mankind's history and or future. Ms. Khan’s imaginary  intelligent being is then described as neither  malignant nor benevolent but is instead pragmatic, using humans as a  means to an end. She then goes on to  detail how this possible future is one that seems to be almost inevitable as we develop what she calls “artificial super intelligence” or ASI. Ms. Khan  continuous by claiming that  this ASI would only come one step  after  artificial general intelligence (AGI)  which itself would only come after an AI that was able to perfectly mimic all aspects of what it means to be human. She continues to describe this situation by stating that the great scientific minds of Our Generation are headed towards the idea of this almost identically human AI, and that it's not so much a question of if AGI and ASI are coming but when. Khan then describes how an ASI’s thinking would be in a dimension we will not and cannot understand or comprehend. She quotes Cyberneticist Kevin Warwick “How can you reason, how can you bargain, how can you understand how [a] machine is thinking when it’s thinking in dimensions you can’t conceive of?”. Khan answers this question  by referencing an essay by Jackie Wang that talks about how the human mind is desperately trying to create a sense of  foreignness when imagining aliens, but is falling short. Khan uses this essay to bring up an idea that what we need when designing an AI is a complete and total paradigm shift. 
