Nora N. Khan describes the ASI as an artificial superintelligence that can be any form you can imagine, while encompassing a mind that far surpasses human intelligence. In the presence of this artificial intelligence we are tools that are replaceable, and is intelligent enough to replace that part of a human being. This implies how humans desire change and for that change to take the form of a being that can surpass average human intelligence. Yet a human’s imagination is too narrow, and the form for an artificial intelligence closely resembles a human figure. There are so many forms an ASI can take, but people are drawn to a form that are most familiar with. The language an ASI speaks is another issue where people try to find ways to understand, while not understanding at the same time what language an ASI speaks. Building an understanding makes it possible for humans to develop a language that can be a form of communication between an artificial intelligence and a human. 
<br> </br>
Compared to humans, an AI is more flexible with their language. They are not constrained or tied down with the concept of death or time, and they can extend their knowledge by using their language. “Superintelligence” touches upon that flexibility by describing what an ASI could possible do or form into. It could look beautiful, it could look strange, or it could look repulsive. Humans are restricted where we think or assume an AI’s form to be that way, but those limits do not tell us what they truly look like. 
<br> </br>
Although their intelligence is vast, their objectives are limited to what we envision them to be. We give them the task and they execute it with their knowledge, and speed of networking. AI strategizes faster than a human, but it can only function on what a human asks of them. There are also broad forms of an AI system that can analyze the short comings of clustered data that represents people without human empathy. To an AI we are just a network that can either survive or break off from the system if we do not work,  but at the same time it is the same way we view ourselves in the presence of those systems. 
<br> </br>
I think AI is something to fear, even though it is innovative and a step forward into the workings of a future societal mindset. AI can only do what a human tells it to do, because we are the ones giving it a form and the ones telling it what it can do. Although there are limits to the functions we give an AI, there is still the mindset that they can replace jobs that humans do. I also believe that AI can’t function without a human because, but at the same time, I can assume why Khan talked about humans being a tool that is replaceable in the presence of artificial intelligence because most humans see AI more qualified for specific jobs. Even though I fear the presence of AI, at the same time I am interested at how far this kind of technology takes us. 
