According to Norn N. Khan, Artificial Superintelligence (ASI) is more speculative rather than anything concrete.  It is the idea of a alien-like device with the sentience to reason and improve, and is something that has great potential to become reality in time. This ASI will have the capacity to think like a human, but also go beyond human limitations like any machine. It would be powerful and unpredictable. According to Bostrom, when it comes to ASI, humanity is like a child, in a room with no adults, cradling an undetonated bomb. 

The possibilities an ASI can achieve can work both towards our benefit or downfall. We can program an AI to take in mass amounts of data, process it, and utilize that data in any way we want the it to. For example, it can scour the internet and document each time the word 'AI' is used and send that info to it's programmer. At large, it can make lives easier for humans from self-driving cars and a house that will defend you from intruders. However, even a mature ASI has limitations as it will not have the ability to deviate from its objective without human intervention. It does not have the capacity to choose or make decisions that are not based on some form of algorithm written by the programmer.

ASI is still composed of code that a human has to input. To achieve an ASI that can stray from its algorithm and think beyond the limitations of our own human minds can be quite daunting and complicated. We can give the AI a specific goal or objective to achieve, but for it to also perform the task in a way that aligns to our liking and approval will pose some difficulties. An AI with morals and the capacity to understand would be hard to achieve since humans learn of morality, empathy, and sympathy through experience. How can you program an AI to have experience, which is different from each individual person? Many of the experiences we have are not even unstandable for us and at the very least, subjective for each person. For example, we can program an AI to grade essays based on grammar and specific information written on the paper, however it won't take into account of the opinions, analysis, writing style, etc. 

Developing a language for humans and AI to communicate will be a long process. In my opinion, AI is something to be encouraged, but be cautious of. When ASI eventually become available to us, we should never allow it to dictate our lives, as well as completely rely on it. ASIs are incapable of sentience. Based on how unpredictable and self-centered humans can be, that’s for the best. A powerful ASI should not have the same characteristics and be indifferent at best. However, as mentioned before, that indifference can cause an ASI to perform tasks that are immoral from our perspective. Overall, we need to have control of ASI once its realized.
