## ART 104 - Reading 6

In her article, Nora N. Khan analyzes they way we humans see Artificial Superintelligence (ASI). Since such a technology, or machinic being/entity, is not a true reality (yet), it is hard for humans to comprehend what it is exactly and the affects it has on our current society. We can only imagine what we think it is through metaphorical representations and symbolic language, as the author puts. These metaphors may not be entirely true, but sometimes it helps us steer away from the fact that AI could possibly easily destroy humankind when it surpasses human intelligence; other times, it could do the opposite and put fear into our lives.

Throughout her essay, Khan presents her own metaphors of ASI along with that of other authors. One of the examples brought up in the essay that I found interesting yet chilling was to think of humans as a child in a room and AI as an undetonated bomb sitting in the room. It is scary to imagine that we think we may know that there is something highly sophisticated in reachable distance, but it is inevitable that that 'something' could ultimately take us out. However, there was another example that stated that it is hard to see AI trying to 'take over the world' as most of us fear it would do, for the reason that AI can only do activity that it is programmed to do. It is always controlled by human(s) and will always be so in a controlled environment. If an AI is programmed to win at chess, it will, but it will configure itself to only be able to win at chess—nothing less, nothing more. Similarly, if an ASI is programmed to do action A, it will perform action A and only action A. It could learn and improve, but will only be programmed to perform action A. It could outsmart all human intelligence combined, but all it will do is still perform action A. At the same time, I am curious to what ASI would do if were programmed to 'take over the world'... The author suggests that particular goal requires the user to provide specific set of actions for it to perform. It's basically too vague of a request for the smart robot to figure out.

Most importantly, Khan also suggests that it is crucial for humans to continue to "predict, model and speculate" on the future of our species. The rest of the article is comprised of the various examples of other metaphors that AI can be represented as for ease of comprehension. On a side not, segmenting different parts of Khan's essay are grayscale images of what seems to be digital pixelated art possibly generated by a program, most likely hinting at the idea that AI can make art—something that we thought only humans could formulate, discern, and contemplate.

> :octocat: &nbsp; Mitchell Christ ([@nuotsu](https://github.com/nuotsu)) &nbsp;|&nbsp; Oct 3, 2017

---

###### References
1. Khan, Nora N. _Towards a Poetics of Artificial Superintelligence_. https://medium.com/after-us/towards-a-poetics-of-artificial-superintelligence-ebff11d2d249
