t“Towards a Poetics of Artificial Superintelligence” by Nora N. Khan is an interesting article detailing the possibilities and possible concerns about the entity known as Artificial Superintelligence,ASI. In this article Khan describes ASI as this powerful entity, how it is approaching fast in humankind’s future, but also discusses the author’s main focus on ASI, it’s unpredictability. Despite us humans are the creators of AI, AGI, and the possible ASI, artificial intelligence will and always will be smarter than us. ASI can hold much more memory than humans, can comb through many information and find the exact solution, and can expand and learn on it’s own beyond what it had been originally inputted with. We humans may have given the ASI set goals on what to do, however afterwards, ASI has the possibility of taking control on its own. It’s both fascinating and scary at the same time. The article also talks about Jackie Wang’s essay concerning the topic on aliens. Wang states that whenever we think of aliens, we think of their form as something familiar to what we know(ie Earth). We have this unconscious notion to think aliens have a humanoid form despite are very limited understanding of life outside Earth. That is the same for ASI. We still have limited understanding to super intelligence. We have a notion on what it can do in the future but we still won’t be able to understand what it itself will do once it’s implemented. 

The article describes ASI in different types of metaphors: a hurricane(something beyond our control), a sovereign( something that will think of the most beneficial solution for itself even though it is not typically moral for humans), a star system(something vast, beyond, and cannot fully grasp), frontline(something inevitable with unknown positive or negative outcomes), a search party(able to go through so much data and find the solution), agent(something with a goal in mind and is able to achieve that goal), a swarm(a collective or so much knowledge that even humans cannot contain in their minds), and a scaffolding(flexible, open-ended, and always changing).   

With all these metaphor in mind, it makes you think of what the future of ASI will look like, and more importantly, how it will affect us. What can and can’t  we do as ASI is still developing? What can and can’t we do once ASI arrives? The article allows its readers to think about these possibilities and prepare for it. This article is very interesting to read. The author is not saying anything wrong about ASI or how it's a bad thing. Kan is not even saying how it's a good thing. Khan is addressing that ASI is coming and there are still many things that we don't understand or that we can't predict. The idea of a society with ASI is both exciting but it's important to know that we are still approaching some unknown territory despite the brilliant minds that creates them.   
