In the article, “Towards a Poetics of Artificial Superintelligence,” author Nora N. Khan talks about the limitless possibilities of artificial superintelligence as advanced living beings that their intellect exceeds the most capable human beings. Khan starts from borrowing words from an essay of poet Jackie Wang and extend her understanding on ASI and what ASI means to the future to human beings. She believes that artificial intelligences are like aliens. They have potential omniscience, omnipotence and supreme consciousness. They give us an outline of the future; at the same time, it opens our imagination and tell us what is possible and what we may need to do. 

When people imagine aliens, they seem tend to depict aliens like wired creature living far away in the universe. No mater how wired they are, our depiction to them are still has some features of humankind. However, Khan gives us an idea that artificial intelligences may be aliens and beyond our cognition or capacity to imagine. They are already living around us and doing important jobs with their unexpected abilities, only most of the time people are unable to approach that system. 

Based on Bostrom’s speculations, Khan creates metaphors of Artificial Superintelligence, including hurricane, architect, sovereign, star system, frontline, search party, agent, swarm, and scaffolding. All of these metaphors show the omnipotence and advancement of artificial intelligence. Some of the metaphors sounds scary and threatened; some others are very symbolic and abstract. But they all show us the reality of the world that human is facing. People should be prepared to welcome the unknown of AI and develop new ways to communicate the unexpected future. 

Many parts of the essay are very poetic and romantic. In some part of the essay, I feel that the author seems deify the ability of artificial intelligence and over worried about the future of human beings. However, the essay is also very creative with its own style, and its style matches the theme of AI era questioning whether we are ready to meet the coming challenges and changes. Besides, the illustrations by Adam Ferries gives readers a visual concept of what AI means in this essay as well as what AI means to this digital artist. The images are black and white, infinite with repetitions and variations, it looks confusing but seems has its own order and rules. When looking at these illustrations as well as AI, we may need to rely on our speculative strengths to look outwards to the future and inwards to ourselves. 
