Studio Berlin’s “Pretend to Be a Bot, Rehumanize the web” with Sebastian Schmieg discusses the idea of people taking on the role of robots as they are asked to perform menial tasks like “preparing training data for machine learning, designing logos in no time for little money, or simply saying whatever you want in front of a pizza.” Schmieg describes the use of these people’s skills in this manner almost as if they were like a vending machine, simply put money in and take a product, or service, out. He then makes a connection between this idea of us being used as machines and so called “digital labor”. “Riding a bike for e.g. Deliveroo doesn’t look so digital but it’s part of digital labor, too, as digitally mediated labor. Many argue that updating your profile on social media should be included as digital labor as well.” In this regard Schmieg seems to allude to the possibility that being active on social media sites could be considered a “digital job” in a manner of speaking. Does this mean we should be charging Facebook or Twitter for the priviledge of our posts? Schmieg then talks about the users of the site Fiverr, stating that everyone that uses that site “is and has to be an entrepreneur.” “There, people do not present portfolios or apply for jobs. Instead, users create services for which they can be hired at a fixed price – initially, everything was priced at $5. So it comes down to the best or the most extreme idea, the cheapest service, the most aggressive marketing or the best rating.” The Schmieg describes this site makes it sound like a good way to get one’s name out into the world, but at the same time seems like an extremely competitive environment. With a mentality of the most, and best, bang for your buck it seems like a lot of people would come away from that site having made no money and with no recognition for their name.
