Reading 7:
Donald Trump used the web service Fiverr last year during the Presidential Election to hire a teenage girl from Singapore to edit his slideshows. He claimed to “Make America Great Again” by getting jobs back to America, but instead outsourced a simple task to someone thousands of miles away through the internet. Sebastian Schmieg made a slideshow using the software Prezi titled I Will Say Whatever You Want In Front of a Pizza, which is in the same style of presentation as the Singaporean girl did for Trump. The piece looks at people who use digital services such as Fiverr to find work for themselves, comparing them to Bots for the system. “The piece takes a closer look at people working online; having to act as if they were bots; preparing training data for machine learning; designing logos in no time for little money; or simply saying whatever you want in front of a pizza. In this rather bleak context, I optimistically speculate about a group of people who manipulate training data or who plant so called easter eggs, hidden messages or secret features, into the things they produce.” He compares the people used to software, easily dispensable, with the work being at the expense of the employee themselves. 

The website Fiverr has gotten a lot of flak this year, particularly during the start, when famed Youtuber Pewdiepie used the service to hire a group of Indian men for a video he was creating. During said video, they made a sign reading “Death to All Jews” which he then reacted to, with obvious disgust and shock. The Wall Street Journal took notice and declared Pewdiepie a racist, leading to the men being fired from Fiverr. This was a very real example of how Fiverr, and digital labor in general, treats people like they are expendable. Services like this proport the idea of people being cheap, asking for 5 dollars to perform any task. This eventually transitioned into the artistic realm, with the interviewer asking if AI could make art. Schmieg responded with a “no”, to which I agree with him. AI, and computers in general, lack the human element of design. There would be no life to the art, it would be dull and would be missing the aspect of thought and imagination. This is why as robots and AI begin to replace a lot of jobs, but artists will never be replaced, because we are not so easily expendable. 
