Sebastian Schmieg’s article “Pretend to Be a Bot, Rehumanize the Web” emphasizes how human workers act as a software extension to bot work. The training, the pay, the exposure, and the background of the human worker’s cognition is extended to the audience they are reaching to. They act as digital workers, a bot that analyzes and compiles information they give and receive to their respective targets. So far, the blog post that was provided in the article goes in depth on how automated messages are run by people, and not run by bots. The people working behind that text was trained to give that type of response, and it has become the norm to act that way. For example, Schmieg comments that “everybody has to be as efficient and valuable a node in this network as they can be.” The distinction or the difference between software and person has become almost nonexistent, because society expects the system, software and person, to behave as one entity. 
<br> </br>
Another alarming part of this article is that a person working as an extension is also easily replaceable, despite the low pay they receive. Schmieg elaborates on the meaning of digital labor and how easy it is to “hire and fire” individuals when they are no longer of use. The connection between people and the system becomes an algorithm our gadgets can trace, and predict the courses of action we take. It raises the question of whether or not there is a future where drones would be the sole deliverer, or another form of technology would take control of distributing data.  He brings the examples of both Fiverr and Uber, where both are self-sufficient networks that create services that can benefit those who can be hired at a fixed price without going through a professional interview. Schmieg compares this to entrepreneurship and states “the entrepreneur is a model that is becoming increasingly mandatory….And on the way to the top, beat and disrupt all of your competitors.” 
<br> </br>
Google is one of way of seeing the structure of how data is advertised. There is a pattern to how data is fed and a similar algorithm that is fed into the system that allows people to mine the data, and also figure out the pattern of that data. That leads into the discussion about AI, and how the data containing those patterns can turn into a behavioral system. For example Ray Kurzweil used data that held behavioral patterns of his father to bring him “back to life”. 
<br> </br>
AI is based on collaboration, a neural network of data that is being fed by many people. I used to think that AI created data from nothing, but reading this article emphasizes how the data is fed into the AI. The way AI functions and the way it receives and gives data depends on the person managing it. If we want the AI to do a specific action, for example look for only green items, then the AI will take in the feed of green items from the web based on the data a person gave the AI to find. This was a read that had me think whether or not human thought will eventually be controlled completely by the algorithm in the future, or if we one day will be controlled by the stream of data that is fed to us. 
