<h1>Pretend to be a bot, Rehumanize the web by Sebastian Schmieg</h1> <p>
This was a fun and simple read we haven’t had in a while. Sebastian Schmieg’s article was about human becoming more like bots and bots/AI becoming more like humans. That was the gist of it. Sebastian does make a good point about how society and our Capitalism way of working are changing to be simplistic and more cut-throat. “Being a software extension also means that it’s very easy to be removed and discarded.” (Sebastian Schmieg, Aug 22, 2017). The feelings and emotional aspects are being removed. It is quick, fast, and in a hurry. On the other side, we are trying to input the emotional understanding into bots who are performing tasks for us. Currently, they aren’t doing so well like the Google image search engine. It is just hilarious the images these silly bots match up. Overall, Sebastian had me pretty convinced on his view but I don’t want to commit to it. Maybe it is just my views against his. <br>
	Robots are machine capable of carrying out a complex series of actions automatically. I can see why we are making robots closer to serve and work with us. Paul Virilo with his Search by Image engine is basically a bot doing the image matching for us. But humans becoming more like bots? I disagree to a small extend. I’m not saying that being called a bot is degrading or anything. We are humans and we humans make bots and AI so of course they will be leading towards being like us. Currently, they are made to assist us. The people on Fiverr aren’t bots, they just want to have simple and quick transactions for a quick job. We don’t always have to have invested emotions into everything. Sometimes we just need some work done right away without too much time investment. Though quick transaction isn’t for every single job. Sebastian’s and most of other’s description of being human is emotional attachment but we humans don’t always run on emotions. We have instincts too! All and all, Sebastian isn’t wrong by any means. 
</p>
