  Pretend to Be a Bot, Rehumanize the Web by Sebastian Schmieg is a wonderful response to humanless operators in the society. He makes a couple of art exhibit to show AI. He uses the exhibition to show the trivial application. "Search by Image" is how computer algorithm searches the image. It is quite refreshing that they can found similar image; using machine vision, he can see the whole picture. For Youporn series, some the image are beautiful women that want men attention. Surprisingly, there are children in the series, which machine vision use the image of a face and body parts to find similar images.
  Using Youporn is an unusual choice for the artist; after all, YouPorn is for hypersexual cisman to look for women. The computer vision introduces the image of average women and ends with a naked woman showing her body. It is the most popular listing in Youporn.
 On the other hand, AI is usable in Uber and other new service industry. That is because no employee is driving in Uber. Uber hires developers to make the system works. The software will dispatch and assists the customers to transport to location quickly. The societal fallout that Uber workers are during the job on a contract basis. In the future, Amazon Go and self-driving cars will remove any service jobs. Biologists can use that technology to find any similarity in the sample. We can see that in "Search by Image." 
 Usually, a bot is a very useful. Newton was mass produced first personal digital assistant. The bot converts the handwriting to text in a notepad; hand scratch to hand drawing. That was not reliable, and it was commercially a failure. Siri was next generation bot that Apple release that allows users to do operations with the human touch. Alexa is just another bot. Uber application is a bot to connect riders with a driver.  Amazon uses bots to find the items that you order and send to a packer.
So bot is just merely a tool.
