
In Sebastian Schmieg's "Pretend to Be a Bot, Rehumanize the Web", he talks about humans/digital workers as extentions of software. The idea is that as we interact with a digital platform, we use our entire physical bodies, senses, and cognition to contribute to that system. In a way, we are cogs in a process of how successful a system runs, and we extend that work to a targeted audience.

One of the topics Schimieg highlights in this piece is digital labor. On platforms, such as Fiverr and Uber, people offer their expertise and services in a persona similar to a bot. If you are not efficient or be able to successfully advertise yourself, you can be fired or replaced, and it would be primarily your responsibility. How cheap the task is, the amount of time you can do it, or based on previous customer ratings are what you survive on in this workspace. It's also a self-sufficient system where data can be mined. All that information you yourself update onto the platform is out there for people to see and use.

It reminds me of this one app my friends used to do all the time. While I don't remember the name of the app, the point of it was to offer part-time work to anyone looking with a set task and set hours for one day. For example, someone on the app puts a notice that they need someone to help unload boxes for 3 hours that day. Any individual can respond say they would like to perform the task. The employer would get the notification that someone is interested, look at there profile, and decide whether or not to approve the individual. If the said yes, the task would be marked as taken and the individual as a job for a day. One thing my friends always advertised about the app was that almost anyone was allowed to use it and you didn't need a lot of experience to perform most of the tasks. Like Doordash and Uber, you worked on your own time and you got control of which task you want to do. My friends garnered a lot of recognition from the app. If they performed well, they would get high ratings and the number of tasks they would be approved on would increase.  

One of the things I found interesting about "I Will Say Whatever You Want In Front of a Pizza", is how with AI being a common thing, people are starting for to lose their identity as individuals. How do you know you're taking to a real person and not a bot? With the app my friends used, they met with their employer face to face. Online, a very intelligent bot can can pose as a person if the appropriate message responses are set up. When someone works at the efficiency of a computer, then isn't it possible that person can be confused for a very intelligent AI?
