The first few minutes showed me images of space and then it goes into shots of parties and so on. I did not understand what the video what trying to do or what it was trying to say. The title is ironic because how can humans re-humanize the web by pretending to be a bot?

I watched the I Will Say Whatever You Want In Front of a Pizza video and was amazed at the existence of cloud workers and his/her as an extension of the software. This reminds me of the time I use to work for Postmates, a logistics company that operates a network of couriers who deliver goods locally. I would receive a task to pick up some kind of goods from a store and deliver it to the customer. The things Postmates provided me was a phone which I can use for GPS and a card which I can use to purchase items that will later be charged to the customer. Postmates did not provide any training on how to proficiently earn a living from the job. Its not just simply delivering a good to a customer as I soon later learn. I have to learn which city actually uses the app. For example, no one really used the service in San Jose but it’s a big hit in Palo alto. I have to pay for my own fuel. Since I do not live in Palo Alto I am not familiar with the city so I got lost sometimes. Furthermore, tasks appear only when people want to buy something like buy a sandwich. This means there was not much work during the mornings besides coffee runs. The late evenings is where couriers make his/her money. I was an extension of the Postmates app by providing my own time, my own vehicle, and my own knowledge in order to make the whole thing work. 

Towards the end of the interview a question was asked: Can machines and bots be artists? Schmeig said no but I think it all comes down to the level of intelligence that machines currently have as well as which category of art. For example, there is an AI named AVIA who produce emotional soundtrack music. I listened to some of its pieces and found them very intriguing and peaceful. I would of like the Schmeig to support his opinion with some reasons why machines and bots can’t be artist.

References

Studio Berlin and Schmieg, Sebastian. Pretend to Be a Bot, Rehumanize the Web. https://schloss-post.com/pretend-bot-rehumanize-web/