In "Pretend to Be a Bot, Rehumanize the Web" article, written by Sebastian Schmieg where the artist is being interviewed by Clara Herrmann and talks about AI and if AI and automation developing in the context of digital labor. Sebastian Schmieg is an artist and lecturer based in Berlin. In addition, he explores the ways networked technologies shape online and offline realities, in artworks that range from shredded hard-drives from a Google data center to crowd-sourced versions of popular self-help books using Amazon’s Kindle. Schmieg’s output encompasses websites, videos, books, interface performances, online interventions, neural networks, botnets and AI. In this article, he is being interviewed by Coordinator Digital Solitude program & editor of Schlosspost, Clara Herrmann.

Initially, interviewer Herrmann asked the Schmieg the reason behind the story concerning one of the defining issues in his artistic work which is digital labor and digital workers as software extensions, turning around the picture of technology as an extension of our bodies. To me, I had to read the question twice to fully understand what Clara was asking Schmieg because I was curious to know about Sebastian's story as well. Then Shmieg replied in his artwork "I Will Say Whatever You Want In Front of a Pizza" is a composition he created using the Prezi presentation software, in which one doesn't simply connect slides, but instead you zoom in and out and rotate everything. He then added that it is a story described from the perspective of a cloud worker, and it’s almost exclusively based on found screenshots and videos. I was quite interested in what Shmieg was saying because I did a presentation on Prezi before and wanted to hear more about what he did. He continued by saying that his work actually focuses on people working online, pretending to be bots, and they were trained to do so. After reading this part, I realized that he referred to the Pizza Delivery video that was in the article, that he can say whatever he wants in front of a pizza. The artist also stated that his choice of presentation software is Prezi rather than just the simple PowerPoint. 

Next, Clara asks Shmieg regarding how digital labor became his topic as a net artist. Sebastian answers that he believes it makes sense to first define what digital labor could mean. He gave an example that a broader definition includes mining rare earth minerals, assembling devices, developing software, etc. Another example he mentions is riding a bicycle which doesn’t look so digital but it’s part of digital labor, too, as digitally mediated labor. At first, I was a little doubtful then he added that many argue that updating your profile on social media should be included as digital labor as well. Then I told myself that this line actually makes sense because as an ex-Facebook user, I was quite enslaved by social media and even got addicted and I decided to deactivate my account for good so that I can get out from this slave or should I call it labor. Besides, Sebastian said that asides from making art and teaching, he seldom works as a freelance web developer, and this way of sustaining his practice has, in turn, influenced his research and his art. As an artist myself, I believe that we can be free and pursue our goals in a different path and it does not have to be specifically making art, for example, we can keep exploring many another field of work.

The article was current as it was written this year itself. He was then asked to talk about companies such as Uber, which is called "lean platform," that use actual labor. According to him, Fiverr is especially interesting as it densely illustrates an environment in which everybody is and must be an entrepreneur. There, people do not present portfolios or apply for jobs. He added that Instead, users create services for which they can be hired at a fixed price that is about $5. So, it comes down to the best or the most extreme idea, the cheapest service, the most aggressive marketing or the best rating. Moreover, Clara asks Sebastian that he once said that in today’s Internet, with its social networks, everything becomes labors and if big companies such as Google and Facebook should pay us. To me personally, that would be great if Google pays us since I am not on Facebook anymore, and I do more research and use Google almost every day. Shmieg replies that the controversial point is whether generating data is labor or not. He stated that Platforms like Google make money and function as great as they perform because they can extract data from everything we do and use this data to optimize their services, and especially their advertising. Hence, Google obviously isn’t built by Google alone, in fact, Google search is simply based on the structure of the web as it is.

Furthermore, the best part of the article was Sebastian talks about AI. He discusses how he started to work with "neural networks," the algorithms behind so-called artificial intelligence when he realized that this is how all this data being gathered can be made productive. Feeding so-called "big data" into such algorithm allows it to detect patterns, and then to learn concepts represented in the data. After reading this part, I was quite fascinated by the way he started to work with AI and he also said that he was both intrigued and amused by the concept of technological singularity. Thus, the first thing he made was sort of an AI recreation of inventor, singularitarian and Google’s resident futurist, Ray Kurzweil. What struck me about his belief in AI and the singularity was his hope for bringing his deceased father back to life. Kurzweil has archived all of his father’s notes and letters, and they are supposed to form the basis for a reanimation based on AI according to Schmieg. So, to me, Sebastian was considerably influenced by Kurzweil work. He told Clara that he sees artificial intelligence as a group effort. He followed by saying that we are all working on these systems together. At the same time, it is like a competition between the big platform companies about who will have the most powerful AI, which can then be rented by everyone else. Again, we are the software extensions, training these centralized neural networks. As a student, it reminds me of the commercial I was watching on TV when Siri from Apple and Cortana from Windows were comparing each another, like a battle against two AI. It is kind of funny but the competition is obvious that most of us don't realize.  

Eventually, Schmieg talks about how coding plays a huge role in his work. He stated that coding is about performance, speed, optimization etc. It’s about getting discarded of what is considered redundant. So to him, it is a question of ethics and of ideology.
