One of the concepts the articles talks about is the idea of digital labor. Sebastian Schmeig says that those that partake in digital labor are “bots” and are just “an extension of the software.” Though Schmeig says this kind of behavior is “bot like,” it seems a term he will only apply to digital labor. I think that term can just be applied to labor in general. Aren’t people that work with machines just an extension of machines? However, I do agree that people that do digital labor are treated like they are just bots. Some people see computer work as something that requires little to no skill so it should not be valued as much. They believe that the computer does the majority of the work and all the person has to do is press the right button. What people do not realize is that there is more to that and there is a lot of skill involved. He mentioned that logo makers are given little time to work with little time to work on it. The reason for this is that people just see logos as something really simple, so artists can easily make it fast. Since it is easy, the pay should not be that much.  Schmeig says that digital laborers can easily be “removed and discarded” because of this system. This is a sad reality because it is very easy to find someone else that can do the work with platforms such as Fiverr. Because of this, the design job market can be very competitive and cutthroat.  
<br  //> When asked about the relation between AI and artists, Schmeig says that AI should be more playful and communal. I find this concept very interesting. I imagine the AI would have a bit more “soul” to it, giving it like a human like mind. It could probably create some kind of result that would seem natural than mechanical. However, the “tedious and exploitive” characteristics Schmeig wants to sway away from is necessary for AI to function properly. Schmeig says that machines should not be considered artists but the art it creates can surprise the creator of the machine. With his idea making AI more playful and communal, is it possible that a machine can be human enough to be considered an artist? If so how can it be determined?   
