In the article, “Pretend to Be a Bot, Rehumanize the Web,” Clara Herrmann interviews a net artist, Sebastian Schmieg, to discuss in details about digital labor and how web influence on human. Schmieg creates the piece I Will Say Whatever You Want In Front of a Pizza by using the Prezi presentation software and narrate digital workers being software extensions; having to optimize themselves to earn cheap money; at same time, being easily removable and discardable. As the entrepreneur model becoming mandatory for everybody, people become more eager to be the best, the top, and the winner; instead, this mode only produce more loser as it “increases anxieties and undercuts solidarity among people,” and less respect to people’s work. This will also confine people’s thought and make them become more solitary. 

Schmieg also talks about how he applies AI and neural networks in his artwork. He trained a neural network by having it read all of Ray Kurzweil ’s books. By introducing this art project of appropriation, Schmieg discusses about people are becoming the software extensions again when working on AI or even working for AI. Schmieg thinks that it is hard to picture the future of how the whole automation will influence on human eventually. Working boring and tiring jobs for machines like bots might eventually become most people’s fate as we are just not good enough. On the other hand, Schemieg also suggests that artificial intelligence and digital robs can also produce art using appropriation. The boundaries of creativity, authorship and the human-machine relationship become blurry and messy in this way. And this mode of creativity may also make people to come up with survival creativity, which is “whatever idea it takes to survive in a competitive field.” 

AI could be a new opportunity for human to think about our relationships with machines; however, the outcomes seem to be contradictory. Schmieg says that in this interview, “the invention of a new technology is also the invention of a new way of subverting power relationships.” He wants to use the piece I Will Say Whatever You Want In Front of a Pizza to subvert the system that governs us. As digital system and coding are inevitable in our life, we live like machines in some ways; we are being programmed in certain ways, living like robs that are dominated and manipulated by machines. However, as Schmieg’s idea based on AI and art, artists are like those who subvert AI and whatever system or machines, not limit themselves to create things with new or old mediums. 
