Krystal South’s  article, “Identify Yourself”, goes into detail about the lives we live through the internet. She starts the article by  detailing the fact that our ability to access the internet, and the speed at which we do so, has caused us to become so impatient that anytime information is  difficult to access we complain and or whine about it. She then describes our  dependencies on the internet by claiming that any lull in our consumption of information can feel like wasted time. She goes on to  say that our need for content and or information has outweighed our need for material objects. Where we once would consume paper we have since evolved to obtaining our information through ebooks and PDFs. Ms. South  then describes how computers and the internet have shaped us,  stating that “The cognitive process of the computer user is shaped by the architecture of the software with which they interact...The new conceptual structure of the internet has obliterated the contained structure of the single machine.” By this she means that anyone's interaction with a computer is limited by the program they are using, and that the internet has made it so that we are no longer confined by the programs and codes that already exists within our individual computers. South then describes any person’s presence online as a persona that exists solely for a public audience. She references Facebook's alternate identities as a means to achieve a goal that would otherwise be impossible to achieve using one's true identity. South goes on to detail the fact that one person can have multiple identities situated for multiple public venues “To the government, I am ‘Krystal Rose South,’  but to many I am ‘KSOUTH,’ or various other nicknames based on my identity within these groups.” She describes her own personal use of nicknames or usernames that she deploys  as a means of introduction. Ms. South then  equates the term identity as a synonym for brand,  almost to say as if our personas online are a method of selling ourselves to the public.
