Oxana Timofeeva’s article “Ultra-Black: Towards a Materialist Theory of Oil” begins with a slightly misleading title. Upon reading said title, my initial assumption was that this article was going to be about the problems with the use of oil and how we could substitute oil  for something more environmentally friendly, efficient, and sustainable. However, the article goes in a different direction talking about the philosophy of nature and classic western metaphysics. Timofeeva goes on to quote Alfred North Whitehead with “Thus in a sense nature is independent of thought. By this statement no metaphysical pronouncement is intended. What I mean is that we can think about nature without thinking about thought. I shall say that then we are thinking “homogeneously” about nature. Of course it is possible to think nature in conjunction with thought about the fact that nature is thought about. In such a case I shall say that we are thinking “heterogeneously” about nature.” I believe Whitehead is trying to convey the idea that “nature” and “thought” coexist together but are separate of each other. Timofeeva continues by using a concept from Eugene Thacker’s book, In the Dust of This Planet, that the term “world” has three meanings world-for-us, or simply the World, the world-in-itself, or the Earth, and the world-without-us, or the Planet. Timofeeva then tries to interpret Thacker’s meaning by saying “He claims that thought is not human, that nature is not natural, that life does not belong to living beings but is rather alien to them, and that perhaps the future of philosophy lies in the mysticism of an inhuman, uncanny dark matter.” Timofeeva’s article seems more interested in the philosophical ideas of nature, thought, and our place in the grand idea of The World than anything even moderately related to oil. The only possible connection I could make between oil and the ideas brought up in this article is perhaps the fact that organic matter (us and everything else living on the planet) eventually is broken down to its most basic elements which, given enough time and pressure, could form oil.
