   The article, Ultra-Black: Towards a Materialist Theory of Oil by Oxana Timofeeva, discusses the philosophy of Nature as it pertains to philosophers from 100 years ago to today’s. At first glance, this article appears to be bringing up the topic of oil itself, and how we must shy away from using it in terms of the effects it has on the environment. Instead of going over the effects of oil and how we can make changes, it thrusts the philosophical beliefs of the writer towards the reader, while not addressing the problem. The author dances around the topic oil until the very end of the article, and once it does come up, philosophy takes over once more, which is a bit frustrating, as I was hoping the discussion would be leading to a different direction. 

   Timofeeva uses the renowned English Alfred North Whitehead to explain, “Thus in a sense nature is independent of thought. By this statement no metaphysical pronouncement is intended. What I mean is that we can think about nature without thinking about thought. I shall say that then we are thinking “homogeneously” about nature. Of course it is possible to think nature in conjunction with thought about the fact that nature is thought about. In such a case I shall say that we are thinking “heterogeneously” about nature.” He explains how nature is not based around thought, and existed far before humans influenced it. It acts independently from those who live within it, and uses materialism to support this claim. 

   Timofeeva goes on to use the book, In the Dust of this Planet by Eugene Thacker to explain how the world has 3 distinct definitions to it. The first is simply The World, or the world existing for us, as humanity. The second is the world within itself or what we know as Earth, and the third is the world without us, or simply, the planet. The author is interested in the supranatural, or in this case, the planet itself. He states how thought is not human, nature is not natural, how life does not belong to the living, and how philosophy must survive through knowledge of dark matter.

   The main criticism I have with this piece is how oil seems to be an afterthought to the article, while it focuses on philosophy. The philosophy itself is interesting, albeit confusing, I found the point of the piece to be largely missing. When the article finally made it to the oil, it begins to deconstruct metaphors for blood and oil, and how oil relates to slavery. It was an interesting read, but it did not focus on the point as much as would have liked. 
