Oxana Timofeeva’s article on “Ultra-Black: Towards a Materialist Theory of Oil” focused on the concept of materialism and the connection it has with the principle of nature. The principle of nature and its relation to materialism falls into several categories of “ontology, the philosophy of science, political economy, and psychoanalysis”. In this case, the article tries to explain how nature could have been before humans were at an age that defined nature. Nature is independent and not dependent on thought, so the nature that existed before a philosopher’s definition of nature is different. 
<br></br>
Alfred Whitehead had an idea that nature was not from thought, and that thought changes the definition of nature into “materialism, new materialism, or realism”. He proclaims that these are considered new philosophies of nature. There is an extension of that definition where it can be thought as agential, objectal, and hyperobjects. Later with technology and media involved, the definition extends to democratic realism where there is an opposition to technology with an extractive economy, libidinal economy, and deep ecology. With nature of nature expanding into different pathways, it poses as something complex and a form of dark materialism. 
<br></br>
Eugene Thacker introduces a theory in his book “In the Dust of This Planet” and describes the philosophy of dark materialism manifesting in this world. He writes about “world-for-us”, or the World we live in as the first meaning for dark philosophy of nature. The second is the “world-in-itself”, the Earth, and the third is “word-without-us”, the Planet. These presents three possible worlds that could exist given the right circumstances, however Timofeeva believes that all of these traits have to co-exist with each other. Timofeeva does share the same sentiments as Thacker on his philosophy of the three worlds, but he doesn’t believe the worlds to be separate beings from each other. 
<br></br>
Timofeeya uses the book and Thacker as a device to bring up an argument about what the subject of nature is about. Whether fantasy, humane, unhumane it is, the reasoning is that it still connects to the ecological and economical system of this world. Bataille, a British proponent of logical positivism, was one of the individuals that had a strong opinion of the political economy. The energy that comes from the planet is beyond our control and that the economy itself was never in our control to begin with. The universe has its own way of regulating the nature of nature, so the economy is unrestricted yet restricted by humans. The subject of money is used as an example, because it is what brings materialistic value to objects and to itself. It is both real and abstract, it exists and yet doesn’t exist in this reality. The concrete piece of wealth that represents this form of materialism is oil, because it is a type of fuel for both technology and for materialistic gain. 
<br></br>
After reading this whole article, my mind was juggling around the ideas the author had on the idea on the philosophy of nature. It had a beginning and end, but the end focused on reaching the subconscious with the idea of oil, along with its relation to slavery. The article went very real and delved into the framework of society, a capitalist society that is shown through the history of how the economy was handled when the definition of materialism was formed. I would try to read this article again to fully understand the ideas presented in this article, but it was an interesting read. 
