In the 3rd and 4th  episode of Way of Seeing, he talks about objects in art and advertisement in late 20th century.  Most of the painting in the 19th century.  To improve social standing of the community during the era in the Europe, upper-middle-class want to have something ideal projection in their home. The more paintings in their home mean there was more wealth. For millennials, paintings are just piece of art. Everywhere in the city and digital world, there are artworks. Artworks can promote ideas and items. During the 18th century, every artwork is the masterpiece. Now, with computer and smartphone, we mass produced artworks with little time to think. The quality of artwork has gone downhill. It seems everyone can create artwork and hang on an electronic wall to let people enjoy their work. I love that the fact now people appreciate arts more often. 
 Advertisements photography is all about promoting ideal image in our society. It was hip to have iPod; every teen wanted a pocket size audio player. So a poster of Underground Ad showing clothing ad is to ask men, who were a breadwinner is to use their money to buy a good relationship. In reality, this was another stereotype. Now, those people are in their 70s, and there will lot of ads promoting products for seniors. For people in California, health insurance for seniors and drugs are in our magazine. Madison Avenues have to emphasize the ideal life in their ads. 
During the 90s, everyone was sold that SUV was the wise decision. Unfortunately, Hummer and SUV are not fuel efficient and cause California to have the drought. Image of Hummer was proud and strong.  Now, because of climate change, GM stops producing Hummer. Marketing has tools to change our culture.  Station wagons are American phenomenon because we suppose everyone has a nuclear family and live in the suburban neighboorhood.  During 60s appliance promotion film, having fancy appliance is part of American culture. It is the devil that forcing that having two children with a spouse that is opposite sex in a big house and a car is not substainable. 
