# Reading 8 

I’ll come out and say this first, this article is dense, really dense. It was neither entertaining or thought provoking. Don’t get me wrong what was written aren’t complex thoughts but they way it is written, can be easily read by some, but not by others. I lack sight of what the main argument of the article is. I can read its words but I can’t understand its message. I kept asking myself, “what is the point?”. I understand that he was discussing the philosophy of nature as a whole but why? I often found myself losing track of where I was or even wondering if I should even keep reading on. After a while of rereading certain paragraphs I even started to question the validity of them, and my own thought process. I couldn’t tell if I was even thinking through their philosophies correctly anymore. Then towards the end the author finally talks about oil. I can see how all this talk can be related to oil, but I feel as if the article could possibly be cut down in half. I don’t think it's length is warranted. Maybe I just got lost and confused within the philosophical talks. Maybe I just felt so tiresome that I stopped caring what the ultimate message was. Maybe others find it to be enjoyable; to each there own. For me the thing I would probably take away most from this paper is the concept that the word, “world” has three different meanings: world for us, world in itself, and world without us. It seems so simple yet I never really thought about it in that context. That single piece of information is what I found the most interesting. 
