When I see the word “Theory” in the title, my body goes numb for a few seconds as I imagine the horrible long hours of going back and forth between a dictionary and the reading. The article introduced philosophical ideologies that was pretty hard for me to understand for the most part. One idea that seems to be present is the “dark materialist philosophy of nature through the lens of horror.” It goes into detail of how the word world actually have three different meanings: world-for-us, world-in-itself, and world-with-out-us. A majority of the paper goes into great detail in explaining what these terms mean in relation to us and the world. For example, in the world-for-us consists of commodities which can be exchange for other commodities such as money. Timofeeva states that behind money, there are three main commodities upon which it grows: the first is matter, the second is labor, and the third is time. Out of these three she addresses money and matter. This seems to be where the connection between oil comes in because she mentioned that the oil is the matter that money clings to in order to prove that its real. 


I thought that the connect between blood and oil was intriguing. Timofeeva mentioned that in the petroleum wars, blood is the price for oil. She then makes an interesting connection that 
“that oil was produced from organic matter—from the decomposition of various living or dead organisms, from bacteria to dinosaurs.” I am not sure it this is true but I do remember learning something similar in biology class.  

Towards the end of the article Timofeeva makes some interesting observations about oil. She states that slaves, workers, and oil are all exploited. “The worker is exploited as a labor force, the slave is exploited as a “black” labor force, and oil is exploited as a natural resource.” I guess her point was to say that oil is the driving force behind capitalism. 

After the reading I did try to understand how this reading of materialism and oil correlate to our discussion on block chain and distributed databases. I can sort of see how we can incorporate block chain with oil. Seeing that oil is a finite matter and that value will depend on how much there is. In the struggle to control and distribute oil properly and avoid “petroleum wars” this is probably the best way to go.


