The Journal "Ultra-Black: Towards a Materialist Theory of Oil" is written by author Oxana Timofeeva, a senior research scholar at the Institute of Philosophy of the Russian Academy of Science in Moscow. She is currently an Assistant Professor at the European University in St. Petersburg. She is also a well-known writer of the books History of Animals: An Essay on Negativity, Immanence, and Freedom (Maastricht, 2012), and Introduction to the Erotic Philosophy of Georges Bataille (in Russian, Moscow, 2009). By doing a little research on the artist, I have an idea of what she has done in the past, her work as well as an author, before reading the rest of the paragraph to get a better understanding of what is coming ahead. 

First, she starts the journal with a quote followed by a question regarding the possibility of humanity to be materialistic nowadays. According to my researches, I just wanted to have an idea what the word "materialism" exactly means to avoid confusion. Materialism trends to consider material possessions and physical comfort as more important than spiritual values. However, in the philosophical term, it means the concept that nothing exists except matter and its movements and modifications. On the other hand, author Oxana refers materialism as a “philosophy of nature.” It does make sense after knowing the meaning of materialism itself and what she is trying to convey. One of Oxana's best point to be stated in this article that did not confuse me was when she mentions that "the philosophy of nature is understood to be pure idealism of the very highest grade." So here it is actually the inverse since she mentions the word "pure idealism" which means immaterialism. That is why she questions herself a lot because materialism can be defined in various ways in terms of ontology, philosophy of science, political economy, and psychoanalysis. They all have different meanings of what materialism is. To my understanding here is that philosophers of nature, nowadays, can be distinguished between the God's created universe to Scientific subject matter. 

Next, famous English philosopher and mathematician, Alfred North Whitehead talks about how we as human, can think “homogeneously” about nature without thinking about thought. I agree with what he says as we all can think in a similar way to certain things. Then Whitehead says that nature is not something that is invented or created. I do agree and it makes complete sense since no one created nature. I was a little confused when he mentions that philosophy follows this attitude and tries to think about nature without thinking about thought, it qualifies itself as materialism, new materialism, or realism. These are new philosophies of nature. But reading this paragraph twice solved my confusion. Nature can be described in older oppositions of subject and substance, or subject and object, or subject and thing. So anything could be a part of nature. As the substance, we use to create anything comes from nature. 

Furthermore, Oxana talks about Eugene Thacker, Philosopher, and author. Thacker talks about how the world is "anthropocentric," the Earth is natural, and the horrifying Planet is "supra-natural," or fantastic. Regarding the Earth, or nature, that in a significant part is “grounded by scientific enquiry,” Thacker says that it is “a paradoxical concept; the moment we think it and we attempt to act on it, it ceases to be the world-it-itself and becomes the world-for-us.” The author is more interested in the last, supra-natural world, from the nonunderstanding of which he is trying to remove all the anthropomorphic projections. He also claims that thought is not human, that nature is not natural, that life does not belong to living beings but is rather alien to them, and that perhaps the future of philosophy lies in the mysticism of an inhuman, uncanny dark matter. To me, it made me think a lot in terms of how the "nature of philosophy" apply to what author Thacker states.

Moreover, Oxana talks about Reza Negarestani who is an Iranian philosopher and writer, known for "pioneering the genre of 'theory-fiction' with his book" Cyclonopedia which was published in 2008. It was listed in Artforum as one of the best books of 2009. Researching about Reza made me have a better knowledge about his background and what the message he wants to convey as well. According to Negarestani, he presents a set of conceptions regarding nature as well as the origin of oil and its illustrations. To my understanding here is that oil in this context refers to "blood." As mentioned in the Journal that Negarestani touches upon a popular comparison between oil and blood and relates it to a theory "according to which hydrocarbons constitute the origin of petroleum.” He added that both oil and blood carry porphyrin, an organic substance that works as “evidence of a common lineage, the hydrocarbon." 

Eventually, the Journal ended by giving a brief statement concerning how all individual need to realize 
 and agree that oil or as we can say money, now fills for the entire matter in the universe, is not a master, but a classification of ultimately inhuman "black slave," one that literally involves the lowest as well as the biggest strata of the pyramid of exploitation, and creates the very core of our capitalist unconscious. I actually wrote that in my own words to have a better understanding of what the philosopher was trying to explain. In my opinion, money could actually be anything, any object, any piece of matter that surrounds us; however, anything could not literally be money but the oil itself. Because our world works because of oil and if there is no oil, there is no money and that could lead to a gradual extinction of humankind. But after reading this, it makes me think. Yes, my thoughts might not be human too but my questions still remain. How can nature does not link to natural? How our thought is inhuman?
