In the article”Ultra-Black: Towards a Materialist Theory of Oil,” author Oxana Timofeeva questions the meaning of true materialism of today. Different from the nature philosophy in the past, today’s philosophers seek to discover the real nature or natural science independently without thinking about thought. Thinking philosophy in this way makes philosophy become materialism, new materialism, or realism. These are new philosophies of nature.

Timofeeva talks about the book In the Dust of This Planet and its author Eugene Thacker’s idea about “dark materialist philosophy of nature.” In this book the “world” has three meanings, which are world-for-us, or the World; the world-in-itself, or the Earth, and the world-without-us, or the Planet. Timofeeva considers these three world as “three concentric circles” rather than “three separate entities.”  She suggest that “the smallest is the World, the next biggest is the Earth, and the biggest is the Planet.” 

Timofeeva talks about the relationships among these three worlds and how human is positioned in the worlds. People mainly live within the inner space that opens a door to the nature which we mainly concerned with, such as economy and ecology. However, based on Meillassoux’s concept of the Great Outdoors, Timofeeva suggests that there is another door that leads us to a Greater Outdoors that are created by ourselves and having a revolution in the worlds. I think Timofeeva wants to suggest that human are aliens too. People believe that we create things based on our human nature, our ideology, and nature; however, those things become the greatest threat to us. Thus, the outer nature is the inner nature; “without is within.” 

Similarly, the the matter, the commodity, the key of the economy—oil is compared with blood. It emphasizes its significance throughout the history. Oil is also similar to the inhumanity of black slaves. According to Timofeeva, “the blackness of oil is like the blackness of slave.” They are both exploited and seek for revolution. They are the base of our capitalist unconscious and the core of the world-for-us. 
