Krystal South, the author of Identify Yourself, does not believe artificial intelligence is the future of mankind. She states how it lacks the characteristics we have which make us human: our intelligence, our range of emotion, our ability to reason etc. A choice, according to South, is an ability which is easily programmed, but a choice is something only humans can perform, as it is only possible through our ability to reason and judge. She states how we must become more in tune with our emotions over the internet, which has effectively changed society, leading to a loss of identity of who we once were. 
 
South came to the conclusion she was part of the last generation of people who will ever experience life without the internet. No future generation, including my own, will always have the internet in any sort of capacity, whether they have firsthand experience or not. I agree with this notion, as kids today are becoming more engrained in internet culture and it is beginning to shape their lives in ways unavailable when I was their age. I have a cousin who is 8 years old, and she has never gone a day without the internet affecting her life in some way. She is constantly on her tablet looking up information, and is learning so much more than I did when I was her age. Information is available at an instantaneous rate, which ironically is becoming a problem in society. 
	
According to South, information is available at our fingertips 24/7, and if we do not receive it within a few seconds, we become irate and annoyed. This effect does not only apply to gathering information, however, as it can also be attributed to any activity requiring internet. From video games, to Youtube and Netflix, if our requests are not rectified by the server in a timely manner, we become annoyed, revealing what kind of effect the internet is having on us. We, as a society, are more impatient than ever, and this comparison is all the more clear when I am using the internet alongside my father. He experienced the dawn of the Internet Age, he had speeds of roughly 44 kb/s, compared to my beginning experience, which was around 50 mb/s. When something loaded for an extended period of time, within 5 seconds I would become frustrated and think something is wrong, to which he would point out I am being impatient and to wait. I would do so, and within 10 seconds the page was up and running. The internet is fundamentally changing who we are as a society, we are becoming increasingly impatient, but also vain. 
	
South states people creates personas for both private and public use, because we want to be perceived in a certain light by other people, including ourselves. Services such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram facilitate this effect, allowing us to create multiple personas. I am no different in this regard, as I act and post wildly different things on my social media pages. On Facebook, I am much more reserved, acting in a more professional manner, with some personal attachments leaking through such as memes, or current news events and popular culture.  My Instagram and Twitter pages are both geared towards my appearance as a creative professional, with relatively no personal interests posted. We create different versions of ourselves in this day and age, so we may be perceived as something we are not, or are too afraid to make public ourselves. 
	
The internet has affected our lives greatly, and this article brought it to the forefront by confronting the issues it has created for us. We are impatient, vain, and extremely attached to the internet, to the point of if it were to hypothetically disappear, society would collapse. 
