Identify Yourself by Krystal South is an article that focuses on our identities and our identities on a computer. It talks about our sense of judgement and our connection to the internet, where we use our devices often enough to be a part of the technology we use. We get absorbed into the culture, and we find a piece of ourselves within the virtual realm. There are many opportunities to change our identities that are different to our real live selves, and there are those who start to believe that their alternate identities are also real. The easy access to the internet gives us more of an opportunity to receive all the information that is fed to us, overwhelming our senses and creating a dependency on that form of technology. Machines were created to aid humans, and the flexibility of a machine’s capabilities extended to entertainment. Lev Manovich also stated “we create machines to compensate for our deficiencies and software to translate our ideas into the language of machines.” 
<br> </br> 
That leads to the alternate identities we have online based on the way we structure our files and how we organize our thoughts in a virtual space. We create personas we could relate to others by uploading similar content to the audience, and we create other personas that are closer to ourselves to a more private audience.
<br> </br> 
It becomes a different world and it creates different personalities for those who had trouble communicating in the physical world. There is also a difference when internet personalities meet online and then in real life, because the impact is profound when something happens to a person’s online identity. If we became close to someone and all of a sudden they disappear the next day, we would wonder if they passed or if something drastic happened to them. It’s equivalent to a passing of their virtual self but remnants of their activity would still be floating and existing online. There is also the relationship between the identity, activity, and audience that helps artists create art online. While the art circulates through the artist to the internet then back to the audience, it later goes back to the internet. Content and creativity is created through the cycle that is happening with the internet, where people share their experiences and their thoughts on display for the public to see. There is the fear of being exposed in real life, and the fear of having someone figure out aspects of our lives we try to hide. Ironically, we still somehow expose a little bit of ourselves through the content we share. 
<br> </br> 
I can relate to this reading as a fellow consumer of the internet, because I had similar experiences in middle school where I wanted to have a separate identity from my real life. I met someone online and we got close, dangerously close to a certain point that the other person was willing to meet with me in real life. It was addicting to live my life as the persona I created, but the other person was willing to bare their life to me and I was uncomfortable with knowing their personal life. They were showing me the fusion between their persona and their real self, because it was a virtual space we were communicating in, and this reading was relatable to me with that aspect in mind.
