 The computer can make decisions based on history. We cannot trust a computer to control our destiny. In Identify Yourself by Krystal South, she tells that cognitive ability that we teach the computer to provide suggestions. 
  She tries to make a brand on the internet to show "the digital artifact." She wants to have a presence on the internet and want to record her life during Web 2.0 era. She didn't like the web and wasted lots of time. I think that the internet is more a hangout and resource center during Web 2.0. Now, we go online to share info, find close friends, get some goods including grocery and have fun. Internet companies harvest my preferences and use it to sell more products and services. Some website needs to use that info to bombard ads so they can provide the services for free. On the other hand, the information can help companies to improve services. Those are business intelligence, not AI. Harvest personal data can make the personal info public.
  My private data is not meant for public consumption. However, I want to tell my personal opinion and my life to my close friends. Those data are being digital dust and memories for others. That website was designed before social networking. Facebook is a digital diary for lots of people. The blog has killed personal diary and give lots of personal feelings to friends. But, a few people love to keep personal feelings to themselves. Private lives are being exposed to public and companies.
 Companies have lots of the data that seem spooky. The customer's data are anonymized. We can make some webpage, and we have a questionnaire for viewers. Using math and some programming skills, we can interfere the viewers with facts that viewers are true. 
This is what those game in Buzzfeed and another website that work in principle. Those things are psychic. I love those sites but imagine we can create an image of a person based on those questions. 
