Identify Yourself by Krystal South focuses on the relationship between man and machine. There are two columns in this essay. The left column discusses how the internet has affected the general public and how it has continuously shaped the identity of the generation now compared to the generation before internet. The right side focuses more on South’s personal relationship to the internet and how it has been integrated into her own identity. In the beginning of the essay on the right side, South argues how people will separate internet and real life from each other. For her, however, she states she has co-existed with the internet since she was 12 and her real life and internet life are merged together. This makes sense given what is said on the left side of the column. The left column discuss the different advancements technology and the internet have created- ie tools for talking with others online, saving data, and creating personas for us.

Pertaining to personas, the article also mentions on both side how people used the internet as a way to change their identities different from how they perceive themselves in the real world. Online, people are more easy to talk to, people are able to express themselves in ways they couldn’t before, and even in games, the choices the people can do in the internet can have no consequences as a result. As a result, this could leave us personally disconnected to the people in the real world. We’re more apprehensive approaching people in person. However, what I find ironic about this is how South talks about a online friend of her’s dying and the fact that she met the person online lessen the relationship. In another strange instance, people will use the internet to present themselves to the real world. So the question becomes to what extent should the internet revolve around us and vice versa, and where is the balance to how this changes our identity? 

South makes a great point in saying that without man’s choices and decisions, we would have this important tool. I like how this article gives the poses a more positive note on how  internet has been implemented to aid future generation. Despite criticism for our overuse of the tool, she leaves man the ones responsible for it. In essence, it’s how we use internet that will result in either good or bad.
