In the article “Identify Yourself,” author Krystal South talks about how Internet reforms our identity in terms of internal selves, social structure, human behavior and relationship. As South cites Weizenbaum’s quote, “history makes us human” and “this Interrelationship - between history and humanity - forms our identities.” We may not realize how deeply we are affected by the internet because there are more interrelationship and transformation happens in our subconsciousness. I remember how different when my parents start learning computers and softwares; however, computer, internet, or any type of smart devices are just like part of my body. I just know how to use them, communicate with them, adapt to any new things coming form these technologies. I can imagine our next generation will live in the Internet even more. 

South says that, “these digital networks have not only transformed our societal structure, they have also reshaped our internal selves.” Our online experiences and offline experiences are actually becoming one and shaping our history and future, and identity. Our “brand identity’ is real identity whether it is rooted in our physical self. Today, Facebook, YouTube and many other social media have become our main part of life. People could use these social media to share information, tell stories, do business. The transmission of information is much faster than before which also makes the creation of new creativity and innovation faster. At the same time, people’s hunger towards new information let us become more obsessive to new ideas. Thus, I think it is true that our online experiences change both the structure of our society and the way we think. 

Moreover, the Internet affect the way that people communicate to each other and determine the forms of relationship. People could collaborate without meet each other but only based on their online identity. Many relationships begin with online chatting or stay with it online only. I agree that how we make conversation online has influenced our face-to-face communication. The content of communication has become more open to public, happens in simultaneous, instant ways. People need audience whether they are real or not. As responses happens immediately, we become more closed, straightforward, but also far away from each other in some ways. 

South says that, “Today’s artist on the Internet needs an audience to create art” which is different from before when artist need to create art to get audience. For example, one can record his or her environmental-friendly behaviors on an app, then at the same time a tree will be planted somewhere on the earth based on the person’s contribution. I think it is important to understand that we create the Web and continually explore good aspects of our identity within the internet world. 
