I really love the website! It offers us a full freedom to get information. Every part of it is just dependent but related. Whenever you check a certain one of them, The contexts related (from the left/right column or the pictures in the mid) are always lay in the mid of the screen that you can reach. You can just remember what's the column mainly about then the informations will flows into your mind. I like this way of getting information. I personally call it--"peers reading"( I made this word, which means when you read a general topic that has many equal level of subtopics, you can start with whatever you want with your own understanding.)  I hope the author could show an index to the audience to tell them about her new concept of reading though. At the beginning it might be a little big confusing but I think once we get familiar with it, it will be an effective way to get information, like we get information from multiple medias by using our fragment time.

Back to what I got in this article, I totally agree with “the ‘alts’ identities are the extend of my real identity”. However, for me, the identity in real life might not the real identity of mine. On the opposite, the identity o the internet might be “the real me”. As a different identity sometimes is an accidental result for me. As a non-English speaker foreigner I'm kind of acting as a different identity here. Because I'm scared of talking in English, in the class my classmates might think I am a silence person because I never talk. But some classmates I added on text or social medias, they consider me as an super active person. Because via text I never need to worry about pronounce which might cause confusing, or grammars when I try to express some complex sentences/ideas. So, this is what I am thinking about: As those people who have difficulties in talking or speaking out, (e.g. too shy/autism .etc) they might represent a very different personality on the internet. It’s not because of they do that on purpose (some of them might do), just because the internet is an easier way to represent themselves.
