  Yvette Granata’s ‘Photo of Lamprey’ to ‘Photo-Fictional Lamprey’ was a comparison between a Lamprey and a still image of a Lamprey. The suggested photos from Google Images gives an insight of what a Lamprey is, and displays many images with its general idea of a Lamprey. The nature of how the photos were taken implies that the Lamprey is a predatory creature that is to be feared, with its photos showing the Lamprey’s small form enlarged, and baring all its teeth.  Roland Barthes and Francois Laruelle discusses about the philosophy and implications photographs place on our perception of objects. The Lamprey behind the lens is no longer the same Lamprey that is captured in the still photo. The photograph of the Lamprey went through several transitions from the lens, to the captured light data forming the shape of the Lamprey, and then to the visuals that make up the Lamprey. In order for the photo fictional Lamprey to exist, Granata took data from each image file available from Google Images and used that data in a processing program to have the files run on those extracted images. The extracted data is raw data and is relied on the image files, so it is more of an internal part of the visual object.  It feeds off the host by taking that data, and simulates the very action Lampreys do to their prey. It’s an experience where the data takes in several forms of the Lamprey , and the processing host recomposes the data to a form we understand, by using the images that are being fed into the program. <br> <br>

  I had a difficult time reading about the philosophy for turning the photo of a Lamprey into a photo fictional Lamprey. From what I understood, the processing program feeds off the data from the Google images of a Lamprey, and causes the images to behave like a parasite. The technological explanation of where they get the data was straightforward, by emphasizing on the image’s data formed from the light bouncing off the object. Another confusing aspect was the details of what realism, fiction, and our understanding of the living object behind the lens turned into a philosophical analysis about our perception of what is a representation of reality. For example the part where Laruelle claims that the image rendering itself and forming itself is not capturing a photograph, but is making the actual object’s image. There is the limitation of the still image, and the person handling the camera determines the resolution. But the emotion the photographer captures determines the realness of the moment. Granted if the subject were purposely mundane or nonliving, we wouldn’t give the photo a second glance and assume the object is as it is, a photo of the said object.  I believe the technology helps create the image of the object, but the emotion defines the objects along with the given visual. The product animation that came out in the end is a beautiful mimicry of what a Lamprey is, a parasite that feeds on constant data to live and I can feel the emotion coming off of that more than the photos that were shown as examples in the article.  
