In the article "Processing/Lampreys" by Yvette Granata, Granata discusses the distinction between real lampreys and photos of lampreys. When doing a google search of a lamprey and what it look likes, what we are given images of a lamprey’s teeth, blood, a sense of danger, and an overall representation of its parasitic nature. We perceive the creature in a certain way when we look at these images and are subconsciously thinking “this thing can latch onto me and suck my blood”, viewing it as a threat to us at first glance. We are so focused on the mouth of a lampret, we forget that the teeth of a lamprey is key to its survival. We instead focus on the photo lamprey’s relationship with the viewer. 

The misrepresentation of the lamprey thanks to the “photo-fiction” of the images is the dynamic Granata wants to reveal to us. We are not looking at a lamprey when we google search it, we are looking at imitation of a lamprey created by the photo and our perception of it. We are essentially looking at the “real” lamprey through multiple filters that we end up abstracting the creature, and no longer seeing the real lamprey at all. 

In Granata’s piece, using Processing and After Effects, she creates a digital image that highlights the shape and motions of lampreys, focusing on that perceived parasitic quality. However, instead of rendering the teeth that google images are so focused on, she focuses on the entangling nature of the creature. The image is composed of data of the “false” lamprey images she obtained from Google search. In the article, she states she wants to capture the “realism” or the “undermined chaos” of lamprey with her photo-fictional lampreys. I believe she is showing the process of how it photographer is the one giving context to an image rather than the photo itself. 

When I looked at the finished product of her lampreys, I can’t help but feel lost when I compare the image to what she is trying to prove or comment on. While the movement aspect of lampreys is very present in the piece, I no longer see lampreys. The real lamprey is gone, and not even a imitation/representation of one is there. The real lamprey was abstracted through the photograph, then the photographs are brought together to create a false lamprey, abstracting it to the point it is no longer recognizable as even the parasite it was perceived as.

Whether that was Granata’s intention, I’m not  sure, but it was an interesting piece nonetheless.
