I really like the articles initial view towards Lampreys. That search engines and people in general only photograph and present it in such a negative light. We don’t get to experience what a lamprey really is. How they act, or how they are when they are just traversing the ocean. We are only presented with images that show its function as a parasite. With numerous amounts of photos of its teeth showing we are driven to a conclusion that the Lamprey is of something no good. We are forced on a narrative on Lampreys, we are only shown it in such a negative context. I really like this thought process because it suggests something we don’t necessarily always think about on the internet; the possible narratives people or websites either consciously or unconsciously push. I think that is import to think of in the context of art as we are always trying to display our art in different ways and to different groups of people. It may be received in ways inconceivable to us. We must think of the possible implications or repercussions that our art has. 

I liked the bit how she uses Processing as a parasite that latches onto photographs of Lampreys. Processing can’t create an image of a Lamprey. It needs a photograph for itself to latch onto and create one. The artist here uses Processing to create a digital image using a real life digital photograph in a totally different way than a photograph. 

I think the works displayed here are quite amazing. They managed to create such interesting and complex images with the use of code and photography. This is something I wish I could learn more about. Like what kind of code was used? How did the artist manipulate photographs with code to produce such stunning images. I like the colors and the lines that stretch across the images,  they could be compared to the brush strokes of a painting. This makes me question the possibilities of what could be done. As some of these are just animation stills, this leads to a question of what else could be done as that. Could I create such images through the merging of Processing and After Effects. Ironically, those are the two platforms of creation that I prefer myself. 
