<br  />In the article “Processing Lamprey’s by Yvette Granata, a Google image search of the parasitic fish lamprey, result in images that make the fish appear to be frightening and dangerous. What Granata wants to accomplish in her piece is to show off the lamprey’s visual aesthetic. To accomplish this, she put an image of a lamprey into Processing. The code she wrote would then rearrange the pixels in the image, showing us an “image of an entangled technological apparatus.” This process is known as “photo fiction.”
What makes Granata’s piece so interesting is that she portrays the lamprey in a different light. Instead of a normal representation of a lamprey, the image is abstracted gives the viewer another insight of the creature. We had to do a similar project in my Photo 40 class, where we had to think about abstractions of the environment. What I liked about this project was that we would stay away from the basic wide shots of the environment and making us think of other ways to capture the environment. Some would take extreme close up shots of certain objects to show off its textures while another would take a picture of a lightbulb while shaking the camera. Using these abstraction techniques to portray a subject in a different manner are what makes these pieces so compelling. 
Even though Granata’s piece is great, however, I do not think the concept would be effective if she did the exact same thing again. It would lose its effectiveness because we already knew how and why she did it. She would have to find a different way to abstract the subject again. Another thing she could have done was do an entire series of abstractions of animals with negative connotations such as spiders, scorpions, mosquitos, etc. 
	The article discusses that the lamprey does its parasitic act because it is what it must do to survive, yet it is painted in a negative light. Even though Grenata wants to show that a lamprey is just doing things necessary for its survival, I do not see that message in her render of a lamprey. To me, it is just more of a showcase of the visual aesthetics of a lamprey, showing that there is a beauty in such an ugly creature.  To portray this, the lamprey would need to be shown struggling for survival. However, this may be a bit difficult to pull since the end product is an abstraction of the original. 
	After doing a google image search of a lamprey myself, I was able to see what they really look like. As I read this article, I did not know what they were and I just based it off the descriptions and images the article provided. When I searched it, I was able to see what a view from the side looked like, and it was not at all like I imagined. It looks like a cute little fish, however, once you see its underside, that’s where all the horror is. Though not all image results of a lamprey is made to look scary, I think it is necessary for people who want to identify it so they can learn what is something they need to look out for in the waters.
