Molly Wright Steenson was showing a presentation at Eveo 2017 on AI. At the start of her presentation, she emphasized how designers and architects are needed to move forward with AI.
<br> <br>
She moved onto how AI started, emphasizing how it was not a new concept and that it started back in 1948 by Nobert Wiener. He thought of the term and stated it was “constant interaction, communication, and feedback.” There was the discussion about the relationship between the control and communication between the animal and machine. It was also a complex relationship between the system and organisms involved, which carried onto applications with politics and management. 
<br> <br>
Around 1951, John MCarthy studied the relationship and stated “…every aspect of learning or any other feature of intelligence can in principle be so precisely described that a machine can be made to simulate it.” It was around this time they envisioned AI as making machines to do things if they were done by a person.
<br> <br>
A few years later the Perceptron was proposed by the Navy as the first non-living mechanism that can be conscious of its existence while having the same biological functions of a human being. It further implied that it would work like a neural network, where it would be capable of identifying its surroundings and adapting to the surroundings without any human training or control. Around this time, it was shown that AI research always has an agenda and funding for projects, so Perceptron couldn’t exist for this reason.
<br> <br>
During the same time Architect J.C.R. Licklider commented that “Man-computer symbiosis...will involve very close coupling between the human and the electronic members of the partnership…” The Human-machine interactivity was the most prominent area of AI development, and architects were taking note on how design played a part. 
<br> <br>
The rest of the presentation was emphasizing on the input and output of a system. If a system were receiving an action, it will do the same action to the person performing it. The 253 pattern, or the philosophy of patterns, are unbiased and works with the input and output of a machine. The patterns accumulated into three types of systems decentralized, centralized, and distributed. There was emphasis on how “each pattern describes a problem which occurs over and over again in our environment, and then describes the core of the solution to that problem, in such a way that you can use this solution a million times over, without ever doing it the same way twice.”
<br> <br>
Near the end of the presentation, the micro city reminded me of the Foam Space project we had to read prior. It tied into Cedric Price’s interest on distributed intelligence, and his collaboration with computer scientists to make a micro city. The surveillance on the remote city was similar to how everyone is able to connect to the same server, and see the various blocks in a “city”. I used to think AI was a being that held more intelligence than a human’s, but after watching this video I realized that AI was broad. The end of the presentation helped summarize the presentation nicely by stating that AI “is about building worlds, rethinking relationship about machines, research funding, data, power, about control, bias, and clichés.” 


