At Eyeo 2017, guest speaker Molly Wright Steenson, discusses the relationship between Artificial Intelligence and architecture. She does this by talking about 3 important architects: Christopher Alexander, Cedric Price, and Nicholas Negroponte. In her lecture, she states about the cliches of A.I. such as it is a new form of technology. When in actuality, AI is quite old- predating about half a century ago in the form of cybernetics. She’s talks about Norbert Wiener’s idea of cybernetics and how they create communication between systems and a steady flow of information. Norbert Wiener stated, in his book, that cybernetics was the control and communication of animal and machine, and “provided information on systems and organisms in complex ways.” This brought that idea that humans and computer had a relationship to each other and how some would claim that in the future computers and technology would become a dominant part in our lives(one who believed this was Marvin Minsky). 

Steenson then goes on to talking about the 3 mentioned architects and some of the works that they need that worked on the concept of man-computer symbiosis. Her lecture included Christopher Alexander who developed an operating system for architecture; Cedric Price on cybernetic building and roles of the designer for AIs; and Nicholas Negroponte who headed the MIT’s Architecture Machine Group and emphasized on an “ethical AI.” 

As much as AI seems to be this new and exciting thing that, with more time, will be able to help benefit and make it easier for us in our daily lives, Steenson tries to stress the main point in her lecture that “AI need us.” That as Negroponte had stated, we need to have a “personal relationship to the computer.” I think it’s important to remember that in order for an AI to function-to receive the commands need to work on it’s own-it need the input of designers and learn from the user. For example, recently I saw this article on a Microsoft chatbot named ‘Tay’ that stated replying with hate speeches when asked certain phrases or questions. AIs, when it comes to things such as chat bots, are still not as intelligent as our society wants it to be. 

However, she also wants us to think outside of what is generally thought of about AIs and think of other things AIs can improve such as architecture, data collecting, and even political and social issues. She talked about one artist who collects data on police brutality/bias and another artist who discusses transparency and machine learning. I believe given what these artist can do with AIs gives a whole new perspective on an old technology.  
