Hito Steyerl’s “In Defense of the Poor Image”,  begins with Steyerl describing what a “poor image” is. They describe it as a copy of a copy of an original, that it has substandard resolution, that it deteriorates as it gains speed going through constant repeated copying. The poor image is “a ghost of an image, a preview, a thumbnail, an errant idea, an itinerant image distributed for free, squeezed through slow digital connections, compressed, reproduced, ripped, remixed, as well as copied and pasted into other channels of distribution.” This description gives the idea that the image has almost come through a sort of digital torture. Steyerl then goes into detail about how this image has been worked over. “The poor image has been uploaded, downloaded, shared, reformatted, and reedited. It transforms quality into accessibility, exhibition value into cult value, films into clips, contemplation into distraction.” Steyerl then gives an example of the idea of poor images by comparing them to how stores that sell movies will put the “high end”, “bestseller”, movies in a more accessible location, while the lesser titles circulate between the internet and TV channels. They describe the need for higher quality images as seeping into consumer formats. “Now, even consumer formats are increasingly adapting to the tastes of cineastes and esthetes, who insisted on 35 mm film as a guarantee of pristine visuality.” Steyerl then describes the desire for higher and better resolution as to the point where if one didn’t have a highest and best resolution they were seen as less of a person. “Resolution was fetishized as if its lack amounted to castration of the author. The cult of film gauge dominated even independent film production. The rich image established its own set of hierarchies, with new technologies offering more and more possibilities to creatively degrade it.” Steyerl’s article then goes into how the need for better visual quality can actually be a hinderance. They achieved this with an example where a speaker refuses to show their images to the audience because the only means of displaying said images was on a standard DVD player and video projector. The audience was left to their own imaginations as to what the images looked like.
