In the Defense of the Poor Image by Hito Steyerl discusses about the quality of old cinematic films and how archived photographs have diminished a lot through distribution over the web. The meaning behind these photos becomes obscured, and the digital reproduction of these old photos brings a mockery to the original piece. The meaning also becomes blurred when the photo continuously goes through the cycle, making the poor photo either a mockery or showcasing the economic struggles of the subjects within the photograph. There is also the mention of quality where even though higher resolution is desired, people prefer the low-quality previews that provides the consumers with more information. The concept of low resolution breaks apart the meaning of the image, but it also defines the image in a new light. The focus is the information of the image and the distribution, rather than just the image itself. 
<br> </br>
Harun Farocki’s interview exemplifies the idea that newer, sharper, and better quality is more desired than the poorer image. The market targets those who wish for a better resolution, and in the same process degrading the existence of raw film. The quality of cinematographs were taken for granted and taken over by the promise of “something new”. The original quality becomes defiled and fetishized by the people who want to control the economic market. The raw footage becomes just a passing rumor, where people can get a hand for a high price for its quality. Although some original films aren’t a remastered version where the graphics are greatly improved, their worth is much greater. Commercialization undermines the quality of the original footage and lowers the quality of the sharper images, making the copies much cheaper and better to access for consumers. Commercialization also leads to the prevalence of piracy, and the abstracted meaning behind the original film. The network focuses on the social and economic divide between classes and focuses on the contemporary audience that buys into these issues. 
<br> </br>
Although the article touched upon how social quality diminishes over repeated distribution, I felt there was also an implication that sharper quality is more desired and that older traditional aesthetics were becoming extinct. Cinema Paradiso (1988) was an Italian film I watched the previous year about a boy’s passion for old film. He wanted to get an apprenticeship from the man who maintained the old camera in the town’s theater, but the man turned him away because the practice was old and dangerous. The man also told the boy that the quality of films are much better in the city, and that the practice he did was going into extinction. The film touches upon how much passion the boy had for the old aesthetic, and that despite the old technology he was able to connect with the films he projected for the townspeople. There was also a box the man kept to archive the footage and to keep for future generations to find once his practice was over. The film’s story took place during World War II so the grandeur attracted the audience, and evoked different emotions to the townspeople who watched the films. I think it was the raw emotion in this film that made it more meaningful, and how the boy saw the beauty in preserving the old art through old visual mediums.  
<br> </br>
