<h1>Reading 10</h1> <p>
  In the “In defense of the Poor Image” by Hito Steyerl, it spoken a lot about the underdog images history I never thought I would ever hear about. Though this is still underground as I would believe it. No puns intended. Poor image aka low-resolution quality images have been around way before the internet. We recently only knew more of them through its resurrection went the internet.  Hito explained that they were always around like back in the 1940’s. These poor images were just the not so good bunch of the better ones. Then during the capitalism upraise and mainstream media started to take over in full force, poor image was slowly casted off. People more and more favored the top-notched high-quality goods. Which makes sense to boost product sales. But when the internet came about, poor image come back. Because of this, the funny remarking meme images came to life. This is my guess. Poor image gave life to internet meme. Memes uses poor small resolution images because the original has been used to create a meme then pasted on over and over. Due to the low quality, the meme brings a realness to it. Where normal people made them, and others can too. It has a personal touch. Large company can’t really make them because there is a stigma behind it then. There is a purpose of money as we the working class thinks of it. Hito’s “In Defense of the Poor Image” was an eye opening but I probably took it the wrong route and found something else but it was interesting to know.
</p>
