When I look at a poor image on the computer, I tend to disregard the image or feel angry that I can’t have a better quality version to look at. To me, the images are meant to be viewed. Thus if I can’t see what’s being presented clearly, my consideration for the piece diminishes.

With the HD technology today, cinematic and professional quality images are more apparent and widespread, it is the normal standard people are expecting of an image found on the internet. The consequence of this is that artworks that delve in ‘poor quality’ aesthetic are often ignored and dismissed. It is to the point where experimental and essayistic cinema has become almost invisible. On mediums, such a television and youtube, videos and images such as these are given so little attention they become nonexistent, and appreciation for these type of videos are typically only seen publicly through rare screenings at film festivals and the like.

Thanks to the neoliberal radicalization of the concept of culture as commodity. Images are a majorly viewed product, connected to global media industries and the establishment of monopolies over the audiovisual in certain countries or territories.It is meant to appeal to consumerists.  

However, in ‘In Defense of the Poor Image’ by Hito Stereyl, Stereyl gives a retrospective of how poor images are not only more common, but increasing all due to society’s own actions. He argues that anything that is not the original, is a poorer version or copy of the work. The economy of poor images is about more than just downloads however. You can keep the files, watch them again, even re-edit or improve them if you think it necessary, and then those results circulat and are seen by the many.Thus, these poor images are our own fault.

Poor images are poor because society views them as invaluable, and their lack of resolution attests to their appropriation and displacement. The rampant privatization of intellectual content, along with online marketing and commodification, also enable piracy and appropriation; it gives rise to the circulation of poor images. This, as well as the ever-improving technology, jeopardizes imperfect cinema and the economy of poor images which are intentionally compromised.

Poor images which are heavily seen and distorted are seen only through one perspective by most audiences. The over exposure has damaged the value and purpose of images that had been established for centuries; to be interpreted. However, they also express the representation of dematerialization and distortion, shared not only with the legacy of conceptual art but above all with contemporary modes of semiotic production.
