In Hito Steyerl's In Defense of Poor Image, she explained how images got their poor qualities through processes like being copied, uploaded, downloaded, shared, reformatted, reedited, etc. As these different processes of distribution continued, images not only lose substances but also their qualitative value in society. She mentioned that images have a hierarchy, just like society, where high resolution images are at the top and the rest at the bottom. Steyerl seemed to suggest that images are a representation of reality. Fads are a good example.

The reading brings to mind the word “accessibility.” Poor images are mostly viewed today inside the vast space of the internet. Because anyone with a computer and a server connection can connect to the internet, images are easily retrievable. Free software makes it easy to manipulate, reproduce, and commented on images. 

This brings up the question of why people want to alter images in the first place. The reading implies of an attention deficit and I would agree. It has been getting harder and harder to keep peoples attentions, especially on videos. Advertising videos, for example, are more confusing today than ever before in order to keep audiences engaged. The innovation to create something new and unique drives people to weird ideas. As advertising videos continues to fight for attention only the clever ones survive. The rest will fill into the archives of oblivion.

This reading also made me think a lot about the history of online video sites like Youtube. During the early days of Youtube there were rare and unique videos were being shared and spread online. This encourages others to make their own low quality videos. Not long after, capitalism kicked in. Technology became better, cheaper, and more assessable. The community began to grow and competition for a fan base inspired better quality videos. Anyone can record a high quality videos on their phone and uploading to youtube is free. I like the analogy between the hierarchy of resolution to reality. I find it fascinating that the things we make are a representation of ourselves.  


