  In the article "In Defense of the Poor Image," the author Hito Steyerl talks about how the "Poor Image" is no longer a real thing, it is instead about its own real conditions of existence, about swarm circulation, digital dispersion, fractured and flexible temporalities. She also talks about how conformism and exploitation are influenced by this situation. 

  Hito Steyerl is a filmmaker and writer who teaches New Media Art at the University of Arts Berlin and is well known for participating in Film Festivals in many places around the globe. In the beginning of the article, she stated that the poor image is a copy in motion. It does not have a good quality resolution, it deteriorates, reproduced, remixed, and just bad overall. She also mentions that the poor images are the contemporary "Wretched of the Screen, like the debris of audiovisual production. It reminds me of John Berger a little when Steyerl talks about how the poor image defies national culture or indeed copyright. When I was reading her article, she kept saying big words against the poor images. Like poor images are dragged around the world as commodities of their effigies, as gifts or bounty. To me, it was getting towards more like a poem, not even close to philosophy. I was a little confused until she started to break them down.

  First was "Low Resolution." She talks about the contemporary hierarchy of images is not only based on sharpness or good quality but also on the resolution which is the main concern. To my understanding, a high-resolution image looks more brilliant and impressive, sometimes more realistic, scary and seductive than a poor one. Because nowadays we have the 4K resolution, and I have seen even on Youtube how high and amazing the images' and videos' resolution are. Another point that Hito made that related to what Berger mentions in his video was that it never mattered that high-end economies of film production were and still are "firmly anchored" in systems of national culture, the cult of mostly male genius, and the original version, and thus are often conservative in their very structure. The cult of film gauge dominated even independent film production. The rich or high-resolution image establishes its own set of hierarchies, with new technologies offering more and more possibilities to creatively degrade it. 

  The next factor is "Resurrection" as poor images. As Hito mentions, even high-resolution or rich images have serious consequences. Those consequences are the invisibility of images that were more or less voluntary and based on aesthetic premises. However, it has a lot more general equivalent based on the consequences of "neoliberal policies." Additionally, the "neoliberal radicalization" concept of culture was subserved as a commodity, to the commercialization of cinema, its "dispersion into multiplexes," and the "marginalization" of independent filmmaking. So, everything that author Steyerl mentioned here relates to John Berger referring to publicity in his last episode of "Ways of Seeing," especially when she mentions the term "commercialization." Besides, in "Privatization and Piracy," Steyerl talks about how classical works in cinema, as well as video art, reappear as poor images are significant on another level. An interesting point she made in terms of defining poor images here is that poor images are poor because they are not assigned any value to the class of society of images. She continues by stating that the poor images' status is considered to be as "illicit" or "degraded," grants them exemption from its criteria. Their lack of resolution attests to their "appropriation and displacement." Those words intrigued me as it does make complete sense. Author Steyerl also gave an example of what Kodwo Eshun noted, "poor images circulate partly in a void left by state-cinema organizations who find it too difficult to operate as a 16/35mm archive or to maintain any kind of distribution infrastructure in the contemporary era. At this point, the idea, the concept, and meaning of the poor image was getting clearer to me. 

Furthermore, Hito Steyerl talks the emergence of the poor image in her fourth factor called "Imperfect Cinema." To her perspective, the imperfect cinema is one that strives to overcome the divisions of labor within class society. "It merges art with life and science, blurring the distinction between consumer and producer, audience and author." She then states that "Poor images are thus popular images." Here the author is trying to say that the poor images can be made and seen by the many. They express all contradictions of the contemporary crowd. Poor images present snapshots of the affective condition of the crowd, its "neurosis, paranoia, and fear," as well as its craving for intensity, fun, and distraction. In her another part, "Comrade, what is your visual bond today?" she mentions how the reverse happens. The poor image this constructs anonymous global networks just as it creates a shared history. Steyerl followed by saying that it builds alliances as it travels, provokes "translation or mistranslation," creates new public and debates. By losing its visual substance it recovers some of its political punch and creates a new aura around it. 

I can definitely relate when Steyerl said that there are the circulation and production of poor images based on cell phone cameras, home computers, and unconventional forms of distribution in her last part of her article, "Now!" She eventually stated that the poor image is no longer about the real thing. But what still confuses me is that she still says it is about reality. How can it not be the real thing when it is finally about the reality?
