<br  /> In the first point of Hito Steyrel’s article “In Defense of the Poor Image,” she mentions that there is a resolution is fetishized. Resolution is indeed fetishized today, especially when it comes to video. Nowadays, the norm for watching videos is in 1080p. There are some people that just cannot watch it in a lower resolution just because it will not “look as good.” Even though the saying may sound ridiculous, there are times when it is right. Sometimes I would look up an old video I used to watch on YouTube when I was in middle school. When I finally see it after all these years, I am shocked because of how low the video quality is. Several questions would pop into my head such as “was this considered good quality back in the day” and “how was I able to enjoy this video, I can barely see what is happening in it?” By normalizing top resolution standards, we will automatically dismiss all the ones that are lower resolution.  
<br  />Some things are very difficult to find online. Sometimes that “thing” people are looking for only exist in a low quality such as the film essay mentioned in the second point of the article or the Avengers Infinity War trailer that was shown at this year’s D23 Expo earlier this year. There are many reasons why rare footage is low in quality such as it being filmed illegally or it only had a limited show time.  The unfortunate downside to this, besides being in low quality, is that it can easily be faked. Anyone can whip up a video in low quality and post it online claiming it is rare footage of something. Usually these are quickly dismissed as fakes, but people will still try to scour the web trying to find the true source. Most of the time it ends up being malware or a virus. Though some see low quality rare footage as a bad thing, the fact that the footage exists in the first place is extremely important.  
<br  />Though things low in quality are usually dismissed, there are certain qualities of it that make it unique. There is a sense of realness to it. It makes it seem like someone was really there ate the moment where as if something had a more professional vibe to it, some may see it as a staged event. Sometimes artists like to play around with video quality. When the trailer released date was announced for Star Wars: The Force Awakens, a group on YouTube known as Mega64 decided to create a fake trailer for it and put it up on YouTube the day before the release date claiming it was a “leak.” They first filmed what the contents of the trailer, then played their trailer on the computer and filmed the screen of the computer with their phones. This made it looked like they saw the leak in theaters. 
