The article "Interview with Vangie 'Aurora' Beal", by Geri Wittig and Max Hardcore, explores the trials and tribulations dealt with by gamer girls in modern society. Ms. Bael is asked questions like "what do you see as the GameGirlz place in or relationship to feminist discourse and movements?" to which she responds that feminism has nothing to do with what her website "GameGirlz" is about, at least not in the way most people view feminism. Ms. Beal continues to explain that her website is about bringing both male and female gamers together in a common and equal space. Mr. Hardcore then asked if playing videogames is better than sex, and if there's any correlation between the two? Ms. Bael responds by saying that there have been a few games that got so intense she would *almost* call the experience orgasmic. As to whether videogames are actually better than sex, she says "no it isn't, but I've heard 'Honey turn that damn game off and come to bed!', often enough to really make me wonder about that. Sex and fragging are a lot alike. It really all comes down to; how well you can strafe, your re-fire rate, how long you can last in the game, and how big of a weapon you get." Beal's answer using a series of artful euphemisms to describe the similarities between sex. Witting then asks what kind of impact Beal thinks the GamerGirlz website has on the issue of the divide between female gamers and the game developers. Beal responds with "In the majority of game companies, you'll find a dozen or two males who are developing a game they all love, and since they are males, they just don't know what elements in the game could be added or changed to be more attractive to a female gamer. I think it is absolutely wonderful to have developers ask, because when I shell out my 50+ dollars for a game, I know that at some point the company thought about me as a consumer when developing their game." As a gamer myself I find it interesting to see the point of view of female gamers, as I don't know too many myself. 