<br  />During the 80’s and 90’s, cartoons with “instantaneous physical transformation,” were very popular during that time. Popular examples of shows with said transformations were X-Men, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Mighty Morphin’ Power rangers, etc. This connected well with the young audience because it represented the changes they would go through, and be seen as people “who can readily adapt to a fast-changing world.” While most kids and teens were exposed to these shows through television, there was also another easily accessible media, video games.
	<br  />With the ideas of transformations being popular, Marsha Kinder wanted to develop a video game that “use transformational imagery to explore the fluidity of personal, cultural, and historical identity.” In the title “Runaways,” the player must search for a missing girl. When players create their character, they must input a race, ethnicity, gender, and sexuality. In the game, players will confront stereotypes based on the information they put during the character selection.  Since this game is developed in the 90’s there is probably a lot of limitations they can do. With today’s technology it would be great to see a game like this being made. There could be so much possible outcomes with the character you created.  It would be similar to a Telltale game or Life is Strange. 
<br  />	One of the goals Kinder waned to achieve when developing this game was is to have the players be able to “change their lives” and take on this new identity with the character they created. Since this is 90’s technology and it was not an online game, there is probably a limited set of responses to how the character will be treated. However Kinder brings up an interesting point, giving people a way to change their lives. Today, this concept has evolved into how people play online games. When creating characters for online games, they can input whatever information they want. This ties in to the way how Kinder wants a way for people to change their lives. There is even a game called “Second Life,” which is basically what Kinder’s goal was but in an online platform. 
	<br  />With the ability to create a different identity online, this have led to many unique situations. Some people do this to escape the reality they currently live in. They do not like their current life, so they live another life through a created character. This character will have a bunch of attributes that the player wish they had. With Kinder’s game, there is a set response to how the created character is treated, and those responses are from NPCs. In online games, since you are interacting with actual people, responses are a bit more natural and unique, with an infinite amount of possibilities. Some people use the anonymity of online games to do whatever they want. This leads to lying and bullying/trolling. People do this because they are not face to face with another person, so they believe that these online interactions can have no consequences.  
