The archives on Switch by Joel Slayton is really massive and unique in design. There is a lot of data saved spanned from 1998- 2016, and there is various articles to choose from. One article I chose to read about is “Does Lara Croft Ware Fake Polygons: 
Gender Analysis of the "1st Person shooter/adventure game with female heroine"
and Gender Role Subversion and Production in the Game Patch” by Anne-Marie Schleiner. 
<br> <br>
Schleiner’s article was focused on how game patches or “hacking” helps feminists spread the word about genders within video games. The beginning focuses on the era when computer game protagonists were predominantly male, until 1996. Lara Croft was a highly praised character for being a well-received female protagonist when she was first released, and she was known as a role model for girls. One reason why Lara Croft was well received was that males were playing as a female character for the first time, breaking the boundaries between the gender roles from a virtual space. Another reason why she was well received was that she was independent, was knowledgeable about current trends, and was knowledgeable about the current technology that was predominantly a male trait. 
<br> <br>
Lara Croft was also seen as a complex issue because she wasn’t really a female. She came about after the Mechanical Age, so instead of being a stiff model of anonymity, she is a well-polished feminine puppet for others to control. Schleiner references this change similar to “Metropolis” where the mannequin becomes a version of an identity. Lara Croft is a data of polygons that looks female on the service, but ultimately is just data meshed together. To prove a point, someone modded Lara Croft’s naked skin to show how she is marketed towards gamers as a symbol of femininity.  The intent was to show how easily it was to change the intended gender traits of the game. They pushed further modding of the monsters in a more masculine game was to show the intent for a male audience. The mod patches were a hindsight on how easy it was to change the gender and culture identity by modding certain features of a game. These mods breaks the while allowing others to diversify and modify the game to how they see it. 
<br> <br>
The reading was a nice insight about the relation between technology, games, and gender identity. I couldn’t help but think about the connection this concept has with “Metropolis”, because the mannequin in the story was a lifeless robot with no identity. The comparison made it easier for me to understand what the article was about, because in the story the essence of the person is put into the mannequin. The mannequin becomes whoever you want it to be based on a person’s “data” that is being fed into the machine. Because of the comparison, it emphasizes how the current technology has the power to represent features that we all wish to see, or what we hope to see in a video game. 
