The article I came across and decided to read was “Does Lara Croft Ware Fake Polygons: 
Gender Analysis of the "1st Person shooter/adventure game with female heroine" and Gender Role Subversion and Production in the Game Patch” by: Anne-Marie Schleiner. The article is primarily about the reception of a female protagonist in action shooter games and what those reactions mean. 

Prior to Tomb Raider, the only female characters really seen in video games are those that are basically trophies. People typically played as a male protagonist that was awarded at the end of a game with a female battle trophy. This change in the paradyme was one of few during this time; and for a while. In terms of action, fps, shooters, not until recently do we see a plethora of playable female characters. Until recent years we mostly saw hypersexualized creations of female characters. Sure, there are still those types of games coming out today, but we see an equally if not more of, an output of games that are including women as playable characters in a non sexualized way. In breaks the mold that once chained most female characters in video games. In technology this is a step forward as society can’t just view women this way. Women are becoming more active,, breaking gender roles, doing amazing things in the real world, and they aren’t just these hypersexualized objects of man; they never were. 

A little later the article the touches on the modding community. Those who forcibly change features within a game through modifying its files. A popular mod for Tomb Raider at the time was Nude Raider. It was the same game, but it allowed for people to play as Lara Croft, but nude. This viewpoint of modifying games is still prominent in gaming today, with its roots being traced back to the Nude Raider mod. Today, there are even companies who hope or know their games will be modified. Games like Skyrim, and Fallout are probably the most popular games to be modified. To no surprise there are nude mods in these games. With that, there are many more mods that add to the game in terms of substance. Players can find mods that add extra playable storylines. Modders have added new characters, areas, tools, and much more to the game. They even fix some of the flaws unforeseen by the game's producers. Many great ideas come from the modding community that are even later input into future games. The impact of modders can be seen through many different lenses but they do help the community by giving more to the games. They allow players to get more out of their games. 
