In the article, Online Game communities are social in nature by Cindy Ahuna, details about online game communities including the social reasoning for male gamers playing female characters. Ahuna explains that online game communities are places of social interaction allowing players to connect with each other either chatting or to complete a goal. 

Ahuna expresses that gaming communities are like “playing fields for social interaction.” Through my social experience, I have played Mass Multiplayer Online Role Playing games (MMORPGs) and Multiplayer Online Battle Arena games. I have met many players and befriended them through “guilds,” a sub-community made by individual players in the game, and other players. A guild is a popular aspect in many MMORPGs for building social activeness and interactions among players. Gamers can communicate and interact with other gamers by exchanging emails and social medias, meeting outside of the screen, and attending gaming conventions like Twitchcon. I find her statement to be true, where I have connected with those gamers online and eventually meeting them offline. My social experience with those gamers offline was awkward. I had to see them as a person and not as the character they play online. It took a couple of minutes to get used  to, but we talked and interacted with one another as if we were chatting in the game.

To increase social standings, Ahuna discovers the reasoning for male gamers to play female roles resulted in better treatment in a male-dominated online game world. She mentions men have an easier time interacting with other players and escaping the male-dominated hierarchy for competition. From some male gamers’ experience, playing as female avatars opens a friendly invitation and approach when it comes to chatting with other players in comparison to playing as male avatars. This advantage made me realize the gender inequality manifested from society is brought upon to online games as well. 

References 

Ahuna, Cindy. “Online Game Communities Are Social in Nature.” Online Game Communities Are Social in Nature, Switch, web.archive.org/web/20050115123708/http://switch.sjsu.edu:80/web/v7n1/articles/cindy02.html.

