In the article, “Virtual Political and Cultural Activism,” by James Morgan, it discusses the use of electronics as a tool to be used on a political or cultural platform. In the article, Morgan talks about Virtual Political Activism, which is a community-based form of action to gain attention in a cause and create political change. In this case, it is similar to that of a protest but using cyberspace. Because the growing community of people involved/aware of cyber activity, Virtual Political Activism can be used to spread to other people or areas that their opinions can not reach. He also discusses how the cyber world can be used for artists to relay their opinion or stance on issues towards an intended target group of person; that artists have new ways in showing their message out.

When reading this article, I needed to remember that the date the article was written back in 2005, cyberspace and basically the internet was there but was not used by everyone at the time like it is in 2017. Given that in mind, it’s interesting to see the enthusiasm and openness that Morgan wishes to convey in having cyberspace being a new medium for art. In this case, creating art that engages others socially in political and cultural activism and at the same time creates a form of civil disobedience. 

Morgan questions the relationship between art and politics: when does politics becomes art and vice versa? He states that both politics and art are lost with each other when “the original intent/dialogues is lost to a new meaning given from outside the work.” I think what’s important in this sentence is that the intention the artist wanted to portray is understood by the audience and that they too work to make a change. Art would become politics once there starts to be physical results inside and outside the cyberspace.

In this day and age, many artists use different mediums including virtual and cyber technology, to bring issues about politics, society, economy, etc. Artists, both digital and traditional, rely on cyberspace to help spread their works and advertise their message to a bigger audience that they wouldn’t have been able to give in a temporary gallery exhibition. However, as Morgan warned in his article, that due to the quick pace nature and multiple browsing sites found on the internet, sometimes many artists’ works are buried and filtered away by the end of the week. It becomes the artist’s job to keep declaring their message out there until people, no matter the amount, listen and act out on it.
