
In the Switch journal issue number 6 “Art of the WWW Part 1,” the editors discusses about the internet art in various perspectives. They “determined a distinction between art of the Web and art on the Web” and propose open and developing conclusions on different attitudes on Web art and the relationship between artists and viewers. This issues explores topics such as useless web page, the construction of art on the Internet, the influence of search engine, and Web-specific art. The editors also provide selected Web Art Sites and raises numbers of questions on relevant concepts and ideas. 

In the article “A Final Word on Web-Specific Art,” writer Matt Hoessli discusses about Web-Specific Art and its huge potentials for artists. Hoessli thinks the Web is a “freeing” place which has a “profound impact” and produce various possibilities and relationship within artworks, artists, and viewers. The Web allows artists to create and communicate to each other with no limitations. It provides artists more opportunities to show their ideas and receives feedbacks from everywhere on the Internet. The audiences can participate in the artwork and become artists. Meanwhile, artists become audiences as well. This dynamic and interactive medium leaves “no final word, no last thought.”

I think the structure of this issue itself is very imaginative and shows the editors’ attitude on Web art and each specific topic. For example, in the article “Useless Web Pages: Conceptual Folk Art or Post Modern Web Dada?”, viewers can click on certain words in the article, such as “useless”, “information”, and “irrelevant”. There are different links behind each of these key words. Some gives the definitions of the words; some links to irrelevant web pages or art pages. Moreover, in the article “A Final Word on Web-Specific Art,” viewers need to click on certain sentences to continue on the readings and there has no end of the article which is like the idea discussed in it. 

This journal issue and articles brings up many interesting and explorative ideas on Web-Specific Art. The questions discussed in the articles reveal the phenomenon of the past and people are still discussing and questioning similar topics today. Last year, I made an art project in Art 74 based on the topic of Internet Interruption. Inspired from the jodi site, we each made different webpages with messed coding. It is a very interesting way to learn how to make website. The web is like a sketch book that allows us to paint with coding. 
