John Berger’s Way of Seeing episode #1, starts off by comparing the differences of how we observe paintings now to how we used to with the invention of cameras. He begins by stating that paintings used to be only viewable by being in the room as the painting. However, the invention of the camera has altered this by making paintings visible from anywhere. Berger then uses an excerpt from a manifesto written by Dziga Vertov in which Vertov describes the camera as an eye able to connect different points in both time and space instantaneously. Berger then goes on to describe how the use of a camera can, effectively, replace the original in the way that one can view the painting with all it’s original colors and figures in their exact place. However, he continues by stating that this is not the same as viewing the original because it is still a reproduction. The only way to see the true original piece is to actually be in the same room as it. Berger then goes into how the meaning of a piece can be changed based on the situation a camera puts it in. For instance, if one were to put music over of a piece of art said music would change the meaning perhaps subtly, or quite radically. 

Berger’s Way of Seeing episode #2, begins by describing the manner in which people as a whole view women, and the preconception society places on women. “Men dream of women, women dream of themselves being dreamt of. Men look at women, women watch themselves being looked at.” Berger then goes into the definitions of naked and nude. Berger quotes Kenneth Clark by saying that “being naked is simply being without clothes, the nude is a form of art”, to which Berger differs that being naked is to be one’s self, to be nude is to be seen naked by others and yet not recognized as one’s self.
