John Berger’s Way of Seeing episode #3, begins with Berger describing the human instinct of buying, selling, consuming, and exchanging. He describes  oil paintings has the most valuable object for humans to buy. He compares painting an object to the act of buying an object. Berger describes  objects painted in oil paintings as being  so life like one could almost reach out and touch them. Berger continues by saying if you buy an oil painting you by the likeness of the objects depicted in said oil painting. He compares an oil painting to the treasure said oil painting may depict, By making the analogy that a museum is like a bank fault in that at the end of the day they are closed, locked up, and the paintings are guarded as if  they were the treasure they depict. Berger then continues by questioning where the value of an oil painting truly comes from. He then continues to try and demystify art by comparing two war propaganda films, one made in Britain by Myra Hess, and the other made in Germany by Furtwangler. Berger then claims that nothing in history, not even art history, can be explained by a love of art. He backs up this claim by showing a painting of an art lover surrounded by other paintings  and says that this painting tells us more about Europe and painting since the Renaissance than hundreds of art books or essays. 

John Berger’s Way of Seeing episode #4, begins with Berger describing our urban environment as being one that is covered, constantly, by images of an alternative lifestyle. He claims that even if we are not consciously aware of them, our eyes have taken in the image, our brains have processed them, and if even for just a moment they stimulated our imaginations. Berger describes the sensation as a language of words and images that calls out to us no matter where or when we are. Berger continuous by stating that these images of this alternative lifestyle live in our minds and our dreams. He then continues by trying to prove that advertisement depicts a better lifestyle for us in a way that can be achieved by purchasing more items. 
