In a video series titled “Ways of Seeing”, the host John Berger explains the portrayal of art in several different mediums. Throughout the four episodes he covers topics such as reproductions to the use of classical paintings in advertising. In the first episode he discusses the notion of photographic reproductions of famous artworks. This is most common in places such as textbooks, where same scale versions of paintings such as the Mona Lisa are depicted. Berger explains when we view the artwork in this sort of way, we lose the meaning and details behind it. I have noticed this effect whenever I have to visit a museum containing a piece of artwork I have studied in the past. While I cannot recall the piece’s name specifically, I had to visit the Cantor Arts Museum at the Stanford campus to view a religious artwork. I had viewed the piece in a textbook a few days prior and I noticed scant details about the piece, as all of the smaller details were missing. The real artwork was several times my size, taking up a whole wall of the gallery, allowing me to view it in the way it was meant to be. I could see all of the smaller details present, such as the brush strokes, giving the piece a sense of texture. Perhaps this is the drawback of digital art, as it does not leave as much of a footprint on the world itself as physical art does. 

In the second video, Berger goes on to describe the effects of nudity has had on our perception of women in the artistic world. For generations women have been portrayed in the nude for the pleasure of the viewer, such as Eve or the Greek Gods themselves. He goes on to describe how paintings involving nude women as the subject were objectifying them, stating “women are subservient to men”, and how nudity gives men power over women. He continues stating how women were always depicted in a passive way, never active, but relaxed, always sitting or lying down. This strips personality from the women depicted in the paintings, never allowing them to express themselves in the way they see fit. This can fit into the subject of the 4th episode which deals with how paintings are continually being attributed to advertising. Classical paintings carry a meaning through them, but when used in an advertisement, all meaning is lost, and is instead projecting a fantasy on the viewer. Ads are meant to transport people to a place they want to be, so they can experience a product, and if they use a painting it simply becomes part of that end goal. Women are also objectified in this manner, and while they cannot use nudes in advertising, the notion of “sex sells” is still readily apparent in media. 

