<br  >In the video series, “Ways of Seeing” hosted by John Berger, he explains the way how pieces of art can be portrayed. In the first episode, he talks about photographic reproductions. With the availability of photographs, we have the luxury to see historic paintings without having to visit the museum. However, what we lose is being able to see the detail and meaning of the original painting. The example Berger gave was the religious painting. By viewing the original painting in person, we can see that it has a feeling of sadness and despair in it due to the death of Christ. However, when we see it on our screens, it just looks like a painting with devout followers. For an Art History class I had to take, we had to go to the museum and compare a painting to the same painting in our textbook. When I saw it, I noticed the immense size of it and the fact that there was so much texture in it. When we see it in the book, we lose all of that. Berger has also claimed that photographs are prone to manipulation. Though this was made in the 70’s, photos are now even more prone to photo manipulation, and the topic of photo manipulation is an even more controversial topic. However when it comes to historic paintings, it should be easy these days with the original source.  
<br  > In the fourth episode, berger talks about how some advertisements we see everyday have many references to classic art. Things such as competition, symbolism, message, etc., are all things we see in ads that are similar to classic art. However, Berger states that there are two different messages between paintings and advertisements. When it comes to classic paintings, some of the subjects reflected something about the artist, mostly to show off what they had. When it comes to ads, it is quite the opposite. Ads tend to portray a fantasy of what the viewer wants to happen to them if they use the product. We do not consider ads as art because we see them all the time and we do not have the references in mind. There is actually a lot of work when it comes to ads. They carefully put into consideration the composition and design so people can buy the products. Some are even subliminal. For example, in advertisements for watches, the time is shown as “10:10” because the hands appear as if they were smiling. This gives people a more positive attitude when looking at the ads for watches. 
