John Berger’s “Ways of Seeing” series touches the way we perceive paintings. In the first part of his series, he describes seeing as a way about habit and convention. He emphasizes on how the eye is of the beholder, and that the visible world can be seen through the center. The center is described as our eyes, and the eyes are what we use as a medium to understand the world. He used a clip of machine eyes as an example, machine eyes are not stable and is a lot more chaotic and perplexing in their movements than human eyes. It is coordinating all parts of the world that are unknown to us, and doing what we are physically incapable of. In relation to oil paintings, they are the eyes to other worlds. During older centuries, religious symbols or icons were the eyes to the other world. It brought meaning to interiors, and also brought a sense of worth for worshippers to converge upon. Berger states that “a painting never resides in one place, it is possible for a painting to be transmittable, and for it to travel”. Oil paintings serves as a form of information, and cameras cause that information to be a form of meaning for the original painting. He also describes “paintings lend themselves easy manipulation because of the silence from their original meaning”. It adds more to the narrative of the paintings, and it manipulates our perception of the story the painter was trying to convey. That is why silence, and music adds different meaning to the original painting’s origins. 
<br></br>
The second video focuses upon the act of how nudity is another form of dress, rather than the subject being naked. Berger was describing how subjects that involved women, especially nude ones, were being objectified from the owner who bought the painting. He remarks “women are subservient to men” because that was how they were perceived since the story of Adam and Eve. Nakedness is created from the mind of the beholder, and men carry a sense of power when they see a nude shaven woman on display. It’s the erotic image that shows their catering towards the audience, and how they are not entertaining themselves but only the audience. There is also the passion that is held in the paintings that always involve a cupid or a lover, but the subject is always held towards the audience. 
<br></br>
The third and fourth video focuses on wealth, and the value that is held within photographs and paintings. Oil paintings hold objects that buyer already has, or is. For example, a wealthy merchant and all his objects splayed on the floor, is a trait he is boasting to his guests and the audience. The photographs that are publicized nowadays is something that is envied, rather than having that wealth. The stark difference between the two is that oil paintings is a form of showcasing their wealth to others, whereas the photographs is the form of wealth humans wish to have.
<br></br>
The series was insightful to watch, especially the analysis on the eye being the center, and the intent of the artist through their subjects. I recall my 15th century art history professor elaborating on the meaning of the center, and where the needle of the eye was the center. The part about women being subservient and being objectified was the most insightful for me to watch. The four women who were relaying their opinions to Berger each had their own views on how they see the portraits and themselves. It shows how society hasn’t really changed in regard to how we view our own status of wealth, and our own personal values as an individual. I didn’t know until watching these videos how much power a photo or painting had.  
