<h1>John Berger / Ways of Seeing, Episode 1 (1972) </h1>
<p>
&nbsp In the first episode of John Berger's Ways of Seeing, Mr. Berger introduces us to the variety of different perspectives in seeing art. This could had been applied to life as well. People nowadays can be anywhere in the world and view certain art work or place on their mobile device. By doing this, the viewer can see the piece, but the viewer doesn’t see the actual piece. Berger argued that by doing this, it took away from the real piece of art. If you aren’t there in front of the piece, the impact is lessening. One cannot see the glory and craftmanship of such a thing. The replica cheapened the real deal. Photography, the internet, and replicas had done this to the classical art. Berger said that the meaning of seeing the piece is somewhat almost lost. The fakes somewhat carry some of the meaning though. The replicas or photos does send the viral value by letting the mass know of its existence. <br>
&nbsp In more of an art sense, there are also different ways of seeing an art painting. Focusing like a camera viewing specific areas will change the thought or view of the piece. Like how if you were to zoom-in on a section with a dog. You would see nothing else but a dog. The viewer would then survey the area and make assumptions of the dog in being a proud brown dog or something. When the view is zoom-outed, the dog is beside its owner posing in a clown costume. Now the dog is a circus performing dog. Interesting happens when the whole picture is revealed. There is also film sequence, viewing with music and sound, and viewing with given information. Every one of these factors will change the deciding factor of the view. Same can be said about situations in today’s media of politics and the irrational mass of people. 
</p>
<h2>Reading 9 part 2</h2> <p>
     The third video was about oil painting showing prized processions as high status. Paintings/art used to depict religious and social standing factors of certain cultures. European oil painting started to depict tangible objects and procession to show status.  This trend still stands even now. Many people on social media post pictures and videos of their lifestyle and processions to show where they are in life. There are even filters to enhance the photos/videos the post. Food, animals/pets, property, and self-portraits (selfie) in modern day and oil paintings still serve the same purpose. These all represented their social power in their respective days. John Berger said that some of these processions are overly exaggerated in oil paintings. I will say the same as as the 20th century because most of those social posts can be just cover ups to their actual lives. I get told that I only see the cover of my Instagram friends and that I don't see what is happening underneath. John Berger’s theory still stands after thirty years. <br>

On the last video of John Berger, it focused on advertisement and how it has gone to shit. Advertisement is a fantasy of unrealistic proportions. It is like a dream image we want to assimilate to be or look like if you spend your money towards it. For example, there is always a glamorous female on the poster of a beer advertisement. This is obviously a fantasy to entice men because there is no way on earth that drinking beer would give and anything but a beer gut. Besides that, advertisement shows the life of large possessions, but it isn’t always the underlining truth. Advertisement can falsely advertise the product if people need it. I’m not saying that advertisement are all bad but one has to be careful of them. </p>
