The video series, "Ways of Seeing" from John Berger talks about the ideologies that we preceive when we look at a painting or a photograph.

In the first video, Berger compares how audience viewed painting back in the 18th century to present day. This change took place around 1900 thanks to the rise of technology and digital media, and when mass production became more easily available. The ideas focused in this video are from Walter Benjamin's essay "The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction". This art theory states that an artist manually coping the work of a master artist is not new, thus modern means of artistic reproduction requires greater accuracy throughout the process of mass production. The authenticity of the copy is dependent on the original and the cultural context that was exhibitted from the original changes. Context is altered through the medium, new story is told through a copy or photo. In other words, the meaning drewed from the painting during the time in which it was made is different then how we precieve it now. Our eyes, which have seen and experienced the wonders of the 20th and 21st century, is also a different medium from to the eye's of 18th century folk. 

The second video talks about nudity, especially with women. Berger talks about how women in most traditional European oil paintings are objectified and are the subject of male idealisation or desire. The perception most comes from the story of Adam and Even, where woman was made to be subservient to man and it is through woman's folly that man recognized their "nakedness". However, Berger also argues that "nakedness" is a form of dress, that nude is a representation of the person themselves being their own costume. It is "revealing" in a honest sense.

The third video discusses the use of oil paint as a way for communicating the status and wealth of the individuals that commissioned or bought the art. These paintings were used to showcase how wealthy one was by exhibitting what they can afford and attain.

The fourth video is directly relating to the third video in which Berger argues that photography has replaced the role of painting in one's household. However, the context is changed in that, while painting represent wealth, a photo represents what one wants to have. It's a substitution for the real old master's work that the the buyer idealizes on having.

I thought the videos were very insightful and interesting to watch. My favorite of the four was the 4th video. I, myself, have a lot of photos and posters on my wall that represents my likes and places I want to go to. It shows off my envy in a way I've never thought of or realized and I think how that changes of the context of my room's appearance and how people see me when they walk in.
