In the third video of the Ways of Seeing, John Berger talked about why oil paintings were, and still are, so valuable. It not only showed the painter’s skill but may things about European culture. Berger stated that oil painting can tells us more about European culture than what we would get out of art books. The oil paintings embedded many important objects such as delicious variety of food, luxurious clothing, magnificent animals, etc. These kinds of things depicted the owner’s wealth and status as well as what they value in society at the time. Interesting enough there were no paintings of the poor.

I thought it was interesting in the way that that Berger elaborated on how European oil paintings are capable of telling us more about the culture and value happening around that era. I my personal experience, especially in art history classes, students are forced to learn how to analyze the techniques and elements of artworks with little effort on the culture aspect. Watching this video made me think of contemporary art and the different messages that it could showcase about our culture. The vast variety makes it so hard to imagine I do not know where to even begin. 

In the fourth video of the Ways of Seeing, John Berger discussed the relationship of publicity and painting as well as the different ways that publicity affect us. Publicity impersonates painting with atmospheres, settings, pleasures, objects, poses, symbols of prestige, gestors, and signs of love. Oil paintings showed what the owner already has while publicity appeals to what we aspire to or not yet achieve. It provides us with an alternate view of life by presents things that we might buy and dreams we could of achieve by having it. 

I think this last video has a message that implicitly touch on the subjects of consumption and capitalism. Publicity is basically marketing consumerism to the public. We see this everywhere in advertising. When a new product comes out we get someone smiling and enjoy the product as if it were something magical. In some cases, it might be but in most it’s not. It is fact that some products out there are just bogus. Berger took a natural stance on this issue because he never really said if publicity was good or bad. We surrounded by publicity just as gold frames surround paintings. 
