
John Berger in the ways of seeing

In the video John berger starts off by talking about assumptions that are made about european paintings back in 1400-1900. Subjects that do not cover the paintings directly, by how we see the paintings now in the 20th century, how no on has seen them before. We have a different perspective on how we view things comapred to when these paintings were first painted. Some topics covered in this video series are discussion ideas from Walter Benjamin's The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction, Demale nudity in european art, status depiction in oil painting and phasing out of oil painting due to technology. In the first episode, he talks how perspective painting changed alot of how we see paintings, how it enters our eyes and gives us depth into the visuals of the artist. We are able to creat a scene from the perspected shown in the paintings, however, the paintings do not show a sense of reality due to it being an iullustration or a copy of the real thing. The invention of the camera changed everything as it allowed us to capture reality, we are able to see things from around the world we could not see otherwise.

The second episode focuses on the nudity of females in painting, how they were depicted and how people reacted to what they saw.He talks about the difference of nakedness and nudity. Kenneth clarks says 'being naked is simply being without clothes, being in the nude is a form of art. However, berger puts it in a different perspective. He says being naked is to be oneself, being nude is to seen naked by other yet not being recognized by oneself. A nude has to be seen as an object, in order to be a nude.
The third episode focuses on how painting was used as a form of self status expression. letting the viewer know what kind of person this is in the painting, what status they hold, and their wealth. It could be uses by upper class people to show seperation of wealth, or be used to show someone as a noble.

The fourth episode focsues more on how oil painting was phased out due to color photography. Oil painting was no longer needed once the usefullness and easiness of cameras came into play. It could take a simple picture and show the realism and perspective a oil painting could not. Overall I enjoyed the series and it gave a very good explanation of how things have changed voer time, how we see famous works of art for how they are now compared to when they were first comissioned.
