Ways of Seeing a TV series where John Berger is gives his perspective on the ways of seeing art in contemporary culture. Part one of the series begin with the mass reproduction of european art, referring to cameras as a method of reproduction. Berger argues the ways of seeing the reproduction of european painting and it’s authentic original. Berger approaches with the viewer with how they see. The painting which can be seen from one place at one time, rather than the camera where it makes it available in any size, anywhere, for any purpose. The meaning now comes to the viewer instead of the viewer coming to the meaning as Berger says. Furthermore, he goes into the meaning of the original painting and how the meaning can get lost and changed in the process of reproduction by the camera. Berger puts painting: still and soundless, but when the painting gets reproduced sound is added or movements of the camera can produce a whole new different meaning.   

Part two of the series, John Berger talks about his view of characteristic of the feminine in art and in the world. Berger starts with the man gaze upon the female, which the woman is gazing upon herself: using the man gaze as a mirror. With this, Berger goes to discuss european paintings depicting women in the nude, quoting Kenneth Clark by saying that “being naked is simply being without clothes, the nude is a form of art.” Bergers continues with the concept of the nude is to be seen as an object, clothes to appeal to the male.

References 

Berger, John. Ways of Seeing. 1972 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m1GI8mNU5Sg
