Ways of Seeing - Episode 3

  In the beginning of episode 3 in Ways of Seeing by John Berger, he talks about the value of objects, things we observe and buy. He mentions that the most valuable object during that period was the oil painting. To me, it is perhaps being still very valuable to date. He talks how the objects within the painting often appear as tangible as those outside it. Generally, when we buy a painting, it could be any painting, we also buy the look of the thing it represents. Things such as the objects, jewelry, clothes and other items found in a painting. 

  According to Berger, painting often shows treasures and art galleries are like palaces but at the same time, it is represented as a bank. I witnessed that at many galleries I have been, especially the ones in San Francisco. When they shut for the night, they are guarded, lest the images of the things which are desirable are stolen. John follows by saying that the value of painting has become mysterious. Because we don't know where the value comes from. Compared to the first videos, where he talks about the modern methods of reproduction and communication such as color photography and television, have theoretically changed the meaning of visual art, "demystifying it," as Berger stated, and make it secular. In this video, he talks more about cultural heritage and gives examples of the first shows a concert in London given by Myra Hess. The second that shows a concert in Berlin by Furtwangler. He said that the experience of art is sublime after looking at those two shows, and it looks as if it can be sublimely independent of a lot of other values. Berger identifies what the meaning of "art lover" is. 

  From about 1500 to 1900, the visual arts of Europe were dominated by the oil painting, the easel picture. This kind of painting had never been used anywhere else in the world according to what Berger said. To my understanding, if we concentrate only on the exceptional works, we misunderstand what the tradition was about. The tradition, the meaning behind the painting. The European oil painting unlike the art of other periods placed a unique emphasis on the tangibility, the solidity, the texture, the weight, the graspability of what was depicted. Berger mentions that "what was real was what you could your hands on." But in the modern world, I don't know if it makes sense since we have a lot of digitalized artwork that can only be seen rather than touch and feel. John mentions that because it creates a sense of ownership. He talks about the European Christian culture and their voyage to conquer lands around the world. Many works of art in other cultures and periods celebrated wealth and power. However, these works were static, ritualistic, hierarchic, symbolic. They celebrated a social or divine order according to Berger. I have personally noticed the difference between those cultural artworks as I am from a different cultural background as well and our artwork is mostly based early classical era style. 

  Furthermore, Berger talks how merchandise became the actual principal subject of European oil paintings. For example, he shows an oil painting that contains fruits and other delicacies and said that "eating is a pleasure, but these paintings cannot be eaten." Here I understood that artist's virtuosity demonstrates something else. It demonstrates the owner's wealth. Livestock and objects are also painted differently. Objects became known as "objets d'art." Houses are not considered to be ideal architectural work but work of earlier Renaissance artists, but buildings considered as landed property. Portraits were as equally important. Every portrait is a record which says, "I once existed and looked like this." But additionally. they were objects of respect and envy. Their clothes indicated their social status, sometimes dresses were made intentionally exaggerated to have that dazzling look. 

  Eventually, Berger stated that we study other cultures far away as anthropology. That is to say, we study them from the outside. We do not judge them purely according to their own explanations of themselves. He believes that we will find oil painting was, before everything else, a medium which celebrated private possessions. Nowadays, the tradition of the oil painting has been broken once and for all. Because commercial has replaced it. Now, instead of watching an oil painting that convinces us to buy an object such as jewelry, we can just find it in a TV commercial. 

Ways of Seeing - Episode 4

  In this episode, John Berger talks about publicity. He stated how we are living in a world where we are surrounded by images of an alternative way of life. Those images stimulate our imagination, either by way of memory or anticipation. The question to be asked is, Where is this other way of life?

  According to Berger, the other way of life is a language of words and images which calls out to us wherever we go, whatever we read and wherever we are. We take them away in our minds. We see them in our dreams. This statement of John Berger is true because publicity persuades us to spend money, transforms us into something enviable. He also stated that publicity is the process of manufacturing glamour. He mentions how glamour is a new idea. For those who once lived in country houses and owned the classical oil paintings, the idea of glamour did not exist. I completely understand when he talks about personal envy since envy becomes a common emotion in a society which has moved towards democracy and then stopped halfway, where status is theoretically open to everyone but enjoyed by only a few. To me, one of the best examples in this video is when he stated that glamour is new, but society has changed. However, the oil painting and the publicity image have much in common and we only fail to see this because we think of one as fine art and the other as commerce. I have got that experience and noticed that some commercials do impersonate a painting. They relate to old oil paintings. Sometimes, artworks or paintings are used to give prestige to a publicity scene. 

  Nowadays, color photography performs similar roles to oil painting. Berger compared images of color photography and oil painting as examples. he showed us how they can be viewed in a similar manner. Because publicity and oil painting use many of the same references and celebrate the same qualities in things. in addition, they share many of the same ideals, related to the principle that you are what you have, according to what Berger. Another best part of the video was when he showed us how perfumes were made and how the ladies were working that perfume factory to produce those desiring objects. Besides, "the imagery may be public, but dreams are intimate" (Berger 1). He gives us examples of people who are surrounded by what brings pleasure, but it is one who will bring the greatest pleasure of all. Publicity works on the imagination, but it does something else. Because it pretends to interpret the world around us and to explain almost everything in its own terms, publicity adds up to a kind of "philosophical system." The things which publicity sells are in themselves neutral, just objects and so they must be made glamorous by being inserted into contexts which are exotic enough to be capturing, but not close enough to us to offer a threat. 

  Eventually, he ended by stating that considering the tradition of the oil painting, it ends by us looking at publicity images today. According to Berger's point of view, these images (the publicity images) continue that tradition. To me, as an art student, I do not fully agree to that because respectively, I think publicity is taking over the value of the oil painting. But Berger stated that whatever he said in all the episodes, the reproduction, the culture as well as the oil painting and publicity must be judged against our own experience and I totally agree with that since all of us are different, we all have our own individual way of thinking, and unique ways of seeing.
