      To begin with, John Berger's videos are the best ones I have ever seen in terms of art programmes and photography. It is very clear and understandable especially while watching videos and not only through readings. 

Ways of Seeing - Episode 1

     In his documentary video, "Ways of Seeing," Berger explores the impact of photography on our recognition of art from the past. In the beginning of the video, he talks about how we interpret images in reality. To me, it started to get pretty interesting when he mentions that "perspective makes the center of the visible world" (Berger). However, the human eye can only be in one place at a time. He then said that when the camera was invented, we could see things which were not there in front of us. So, to me, that explains everything because we tend to see from a single center and what surrounds us comes from another perspective of view. And that view is impossible for even both our eyes to see. And then comes a short black and white video created in 1928, showing how a machine/ an old camera, maneuvering in chaotics movements, recording one movement after another on the most complicated combinations that we, as human, won't be able to do. Those words are from a manifesto written in 1923 by Dziga Vertov who was a Rissian film director. I this example I noticed how a simple camera can reproduce an image. How it makes it available in any size, anywhere, for any purposes. 

     Afterwards, Berger showed a bunch of images that he extracted from some famous original paintings and reproduced them. He then placed it somewhere else to show how different it may look. Those images are surrounded not by golden frames, but by the familiarity of the room we are in, and the people that surround us, as the Berger mentions (Berger). When he was saying that if we, as viewers, are watching those images right now, the images might be over a table, next to the window, above the carpet of a room, and I was shocked. Because while watching this documentary, I was actually in my room, next to my window, sitting on my bed that was above my green carpet. He compares the way we see images from a church to the one we possess at home. We go to see the images in the church; however, at home, the images come to you, we do not go to them. He said that images travel through different levels to come to us, just like when he is doing this episode. Despite having replicates or reproduces artwork images, the originals are still unique, the look different from how they do on any media such as television and even postcards. I actually agree with that point of view since I've been to several art museums and I've noticed the difference while approaching to the original images.

     Moreover, Berger explains how the reproduction of images distort the value, the aesthetics and even the message of the original ones. He mentions how antique images sporadically have a sense of interrupted silence and stillness which can be very striking. Berger showed some well-known painting of artist Van Gogh and Caravaggio as examples. The examples show how those paintings consist of details that cut to music from an Italian opera, to a religious choral. Another point that I was intrigued while watching this video is when he mentions that when "paintings are reproduced, they become a form of information which is being transmitted and so there they have to hold their own against the other information which is jostling around them to appear on the same page or the same screen. (Berger). I do not fully agree with that because those images are obviously not the original ones but if they are not on a page with other written information and is like a poster that covers the entire page, I'll consider it as a poster or piece of artwork. But I do agree the meaning does change though. The context is definitely different. He demonstrates examples of the ways in which reproduction makes the meaning of works of art ambiguous but not in a negative way. 

Ways of Seeing - Episode 2

     "Behind every glance, there is a judgment" (Berger). In this video, Episode 2 of Ways of Seeing, John Berger talks about how women are being looked and identified. As a viewer, I am expecting to discover the criteria and conventions by which women were judged and seen in terms of nude and different other aspects of a woman. 

     Some reasonable point that Berger mentions in this article was "to be naked is to be oneself, to be nude is to be seen naked by others and yet not recognized for oneself" (Berger). This means that a nude has to be seen as an object but not as a living thing in order to be a nude. Berger states that nakedness was created from Adam and Eve when they ate the apple and realized that they were naked. Most nudes in oil painting have been lined up by their painters for the pleasure of the male spectator owner who will then assess and judge them as sites. To my understanding, at the time period, women were the most demanding to get their body painted. They were judged by their appearance if they were beautiful or not. The prize was given only to the beautiful women. The rest were considered ugly and rejected. Berger then talks about the expression of the women. How the women of the oil painting respond in the image compared to the ones taken in modern time by a photographer using a camera. Their expressions were not similar. 

     John Berger to me is someone who can talk beyond an image. His point of view is truly exceptional. He completely changed my perspective of viewing an image from now on. He did an experiment where he used a few women to talk about how they think about the women in the oil paintings. They also mention that they found it really interesting and still find it unreal, missing of information, what the paintings actually represents. Another lady mentions that nudity was a kind of disguise, like a uniform for "sexual pleasure." What the ladies were trying to say that women tend to wait for the male to take action during that period of time. One of the ladies thinks that women body are a beautiful object if they have nothing to do about it and she added that "narcissism" is the feeling of inadequacy. She mentions that women always try to measure up to "erotic image" that is projected. To my understanding, women in oil painting were not 100% themselves. They were like robots who felt for desire and erotism. They were not fully conscious of what they were performing/posing. Looking at the paintings first, I could not tell that they were in such situation until I finished the video. 
