The four part series, “Ways of Seeing,” by John Berger tells about how people view things, such as differents forms of art, in ways that are affected by our beliefs and knowledge. The first video heavily focuses on what we see in old Renaissance art when given different context. For example, changing the music or cutting the painting off with random images can create different forms of emotions and our perception of the painting can change from profound and in awe, to just plain confused. Many times in the video, we would show these paintings in complete silence; making the viewer stay there looking at the painting for more than 30 seconds. Even without music in the background, the silence creates its own sense of feeling to the painting and viewer tries to find meaning in what they are seeing. 

The second video focuses on how men and women are culturally represented in art. In most of the art he showed, women were subdued; subservient to men. There was an interesting part in which he speaks about Adam and Eve and the idea of nakedness. In the context of history, it is Eve, or any of the women he showed painted naked, that is to blame for a man’s sexual desire or sin. If a woman is naked in a painted naked, she is seen as beautiful and sublime. If she were to hold a mirror, it would be vanity and in a sense, she is at fault for create inappropriate desires. In turn, women become mere objects. It’s even sadder when Berger shows modern day art and magazine covers that portray women the same way even after so many years. In a way, this affirms to the idea that even if people think they have changed since the olden times, the perceptions they had or still passed down and engraved in our mindsets unconsciously and you are easily able to see this simply by looking at a picture.

The third video focuses on wealth in the context of oil paintings and photographs. Old paintings, not just oil paintings, were shown as a sign of wealth. That people back then had money to spend to buy paintings. Oil painting was a specifically expensive media and having oil paintings would have owners boasting about their status in society. Photographs however, are seen as windows to what the photographer sees. It can separate people or become personal. Photographs can create a desire on what people want such as wealth rather than showcasing wealth in comparison to oil paintings.

The fourth video is about publicity and art. In this video, Berger mostly focuses on modern day art and how they are usually accompanied with advertisements and human consumerism. He shows how media has taken the real life struggles of individuals and subverting them in a way that can produce profit. For example, there was a magazine where it showed the poor conditions of a country. They would show photos of the poop people and then the next page would show advertisements. As a result, the viewer become disassociated with what the people in the photo are feeling and the gap between the two places get bigger.

It’s really interesting how something as simple as changing the image, advertisements, our own political and cultural ideas can change our perceptions about things(not just art) and it’s entire meaning. This series gave a lot of insight and really showed the concept of what we see to what we choose to see and to consider the factors as to why we see them as such.
