Part 01 (Ep 01-02)
John Berger discussed in episode 1 and 2 about various factors of context of painting, how the invention of camera changed perspectives, and symbolism. The audience can be in one place, and the artwork can be in another place; and the camera aid in reproduction and distribution. But, the camera controls what is being recorded in its perspective, so the audience is seeing through their eyes. In the sense of European painting, we are seeing what the painters want us to see; women as the main symbolism. Berger discusses about how the men are surveyor and the women are surveyed, and their gestures were sexual. In the context of perspectives, we are seeing what the painter wanted to depict what women role was. I think this is important in today’s context because various media outlets can imply different narratives.

CNN, for example, is Pro-Democratic party, and will do what it takes to get their candidate of choice to become president. The same goes for Fox News Channel, but for the Republican Party. Both parties will feed to the audience on these: the candidate’s strengths, the opponent’s weaknesses, exaggeration, and so forth. I believe setting narratives is another factor to consider when discussing about perspectives because one subject can be recorded multiple factions, and be interpreted various ways.

Part 02 (Ep 03-04)
John Berger discussed in episode 3 and 4 on the following topics: value of the painting, and the alternative way of life. In this sense with oil painting, Berger discusses that oil painting are valued really high because at first of their mysterious; but in actuality, it is because they cannot be completely replicated. This nature of painting has therefore granted the illusion of confidence in owners who have acquired the paintings. The other part of this is the depiction of an alternate life style. It’s common in the modern advertisement: advertisers tells the audience on how they see the world, and comforts them with their solution. This segment is interesting because how this method is still a practice norm.

Let’s say, for example, a gaming peripherals company want to sell their product. Generally they will tell their target audience their skills are strong, but also their current equipments are holding them back. This influences the audience into thinking they are not good enough because of their current equipment. With this going on, the company will suggest that their product will take their performance to the next level; this is somewhat of a false illusion, and may or maynot be true. Long story short: the target audience starts buying the company’s product. When they see their performance increase, the value of the product increase, and validates the company’s claim.
