In the series “Ways of Seeing,” John Berger explains different ways we see painting and other forms of art. He raises questions about the ideologies in visual images and covers topics such as the effects of photographic reproduction of classical oil paintings, the effects of nudity in classical paintings, and how advertising and publicity relate to European traditional paintings. 

In the first episode, John Berger discusses about the meanings of authentic paintings and how their meanings have been changed since the invention of the camera. He explains that the original meanings of paintings can be transmitted through different ways of reproduction. Even thought the images shown in this video are not the original paintings, Berger whats to demonstrate that “the most important thing about paintings themselves is that their images are silent and still.” However, the silence and stillness of paintings are very easy to be manipulated and transformed by using movement and sound, even more radically through film and television. The meaning of images can be easily changed according to what we see beside it or what comes after it. As each person has different perspective to interpret things, what we see and how we see from images today could be varied and inconstant. Like John Berger said in the video, the works of art have lost and gained as they become transmittable. 

In episode 2, John Berger talks about the role of women and men in painting and art. In the tradition of European painting, especially in the category of the nude oil painting, “women are subservient to men” and being seen as a sight. The nude is like an object, a dress with naked body, or a disguise that can not be discarded. In many paintings showed in the video, women are painted as naked, passive, and relaxed only to show a sign of their submission to men rather than the expression of there own feelings. Women in those oil paintings and photographs are being displayed toward the audience. They are like objects posed to meet the idealism of the spectator, the desire of the men who are looking at the images. John Berger shows the program to a group of women and asks about their thoughts on the questions raised in the program. The women discuss how they see the nude images and talk about the effects of the nude paintings on today’s value of beauty.

In the third episode, John Berger mentions that we should be wary of a love of art. He gives an example of an oil paint which shows a 17th century patron surrounded by his collection. Like this patron showing his special pride through a house of painting and Holbein’s The Ambassadors which depicts full of wealth and power in skillful painting techniques, Berger explains the connection between realism in oil painting and in real life. Many oil paintings focus on the subject of merchandise specifically, such as eating pleasure, pedigree, objects, and landed property. Also, many paintings emphasize social status and identity through exaggerated depictions. They all reveal certain views and some sense of superiority. In other paintings, artists focus on showing their visions, such as freedom in nature and the mystery of light and time. Through these oil paintings, Berger demonstrates different choices, values, and how oil painting becomes a medium for showing a kind of existence and look of certain groups of people in certain period of time. 

The tradition of the oil painting has been broken and replaced by publicity. Publicity, existing in everywhere, encourages people to buy, to transform, and to create more envy and glamour. Similar to the oil paintings, Berger explains with different images that publicity is another way of celebrating private possession. However, publicity also shows something that is different from the oil paintings. Publicity shows different ways of life and presents these lifestyles that we aspire to but have not yet achieved. What has been ignored in it is how these images and visions are produced. Berger suggests that we are seriously influenced by publicity and dream about the imageries that are contrasted to our real life. Reality is unrecognized in many images of publicity; therefore, Berger wants to use this program to question some of the values and traditions celebrated in our cultures and suggest people to be aware of the ways of seeing and not seeing when creating or using modern technology and art. 
