Foamspace is a project based on the ethereum block chain where it shows how it is possible to integrate the concept into modern architecture. Foamspace broke their project into four parts, which are the crypto-spatial layer, native foam token, spatial wallets, and space tokens. The crypto-spatial layer focuses on the “protocol for identity of location data”, native foam token creates the finances of the foam space, spatial wallets turns the “crypto-spatial coordinates into smart contract wallets”, and space tokens create “tokens with unique coordinate addresses”. 
<br> <br>
The basis of the project was first introduced through Bitcoin, where it is an economic form of block chain. It is able to record all activity on the network as the computer mines all that data. It eliminates a central form of transaction and people are able to do transactions without restrictions. In turn these people or “miners” are rewarded for maintaining the network.
<br> <br>
The FOAM protocol associates beyond general coordinates and enables the Z-axis, where the smart contracts are referenced to that particular address by how many are stacked on that address. It becomes more convenient to keep track of transactions and where those transactions are originating from, or where the transactions are going to. There is also the convenience of using an augmented reality to see the locations in real time, and it makes it more convenient for users to deposit data into those coordinates while managing their tokens to set prices for properties. Since Foam Tokens are the sole form of currency for Foam Space to function, it causes the value for it to grow overtime as the liquid supply decreases. 
<br> <br>
Foamspace based on the blockchain made me think about how currency is handled in society. We have to go through a bank, an atm, or we go through big executive companies to get our money. With the blockchain it is more of a direct transaction where each person is able to help the other by simple sending it over and receiving. Also reading about Foamspace refreshed my memory of what I originally thought of the blockchain. 
<br> <br>
During the Summer Arts session, I had to go with the topic of the block chain with a client that was assigned to my group. We were informed about the Bitcoin system and how currency was run on an encrypted server to keep transactions personal, or almost untraceable. They used the same example as Foamspace to show what the block chain was. Everyone has access to the server, and anyone can change it to how they want it to. Another example that was used was an arcade-scoring system. Anyone can alter the score by getting a new high score, and leave a pen name or real name behind as a digital footprint. The data is constantly updated and refreshed whenever another person contributes to the scoreboard. 
<br> <br>
Personally I have a hard time thinking about other ways to represent the block chain besides currency or game score mechanics. I have a general idea, but the specifics on the block chain are still confusing for me overall.  


