Foam Space is an interesting piece as it takes on a subject not none to many. It takes on a concept that is also confusing to many, including myself. The idea and fundamentals that surround block chaining and bitcoins is a confusing subject. To tackle that and create a physical representation of that is no easy feat. To start off, I’d like to say they pulled it off.

Foam Space takes the methodology of bitcoins and block chaining and creates a physical metaphor of it in the streets of New York. The installation itself is a micro city composed of a chain of factory-standard Expanded Polystyrene geofoam blocks which represents bitcoin block chaining. I like the reasoning behind using these geofoam blocks. That all blocks are the same, they are an invisible foundation in architecture, and that it can be resold back to its vendor for about 60% of the cost. It promotes recycling and reuse. Definitely something we need to take into consideration due to climate change.

Though I am left with more questions with this piece than I began with. They mentioned that people started making kiosks and performance stages; how did that occur? What was the process behind that? Did they have to get a permit? Were they people who contributed to the project? Did their kiosks use the cryptocurrency? Questions like these plagued my mind during my reading. They brought up things that I don’t think they explored fully.

I do like the fact that the article tries to explain block chaining and bitcoins though. It gives the readers a brief introduction that kind of works. It presents well the project by providing photos and videos. I think the essay could have been written better though. 
