 How AI change our business and Society
 
  This past a couple of years, we heard of blockchain and bitcoin. They are changing how we design AI and provide services to the client. To understand the change, we need understand AI. Molly Steenson at Eyeo 2017 explains the history of AI.  Artificial Intelligence is a form of machine learning. You need lots of data to parse information to make predictions.  Using statistics, graph theory and some programming language, AI is a component of American business. 
  How can we collect data for machine learning or blockchain? It is both art form and technical work. First, we have to collect customer information. We don't want customers to be scare. Customer insights are essential to success. Sometimes, previous orders are the wonderful way to understand our human psyche. 
Now, we have data. She talks how to organize the mass information that we acquire. We use graph theory to design how we organize data. 
The application for machine learning is fantastic. Using blockchain to connect different datapoint and graph theory to figure next possible operation. UPS and FedEx use machine learning to sort their packages and provide an efficient way to transport package. Federal Express can guarantee their package overnight because of computers. Graph theory can easily find the easiest route for couriers to get to customers. 
Consumers want to buy things that are targeted directly. So a smart e-tailer can use your data to sell related items directly. Each item has a connection with other items. Based on the history and items, the system will choose the items based on scores that calculated by servers. In the video, computer scientists are exploring how AI can influence users and executive. 
  In last twenty years, Amazon uses blockchain and mountain of data to become the premier retailer. By purchasing Whole Foods, Amazon is quietly learning how people buy grocery online and offline.
