Molly Wright Steenson talks about Artificial Intelligence and its dependence on designers and architects. In the video, Molly explains how AI is not a new concept to this era going back to the term 'cybernetics' which was introduced around 1948. Cybernetics is the flow of information and is defined as a network of constant communications and interactions. Cybernetics predates AI, and both share the idea of man communicating and interacting with machine where information can be shared. AI, which was coined by John McCarthy in 1958, is making machines do things that would require intelligence from humans. According to JCR Licklider in 1960, it is a man-computer symbiosis.
Molly goes on in the presentation talking about the works of architects Christopher Alexander, Cedric Price, and Negroponte. Each of these men contributed in defining AI and how architecture plays a big role in AI.

While watching this video, my mind instantly goes to smartphones, which in my opinion are the prime examples of AI at work in our generation. Our phones have become our own personal and mobile mini computers that we have increasingly depended on to conduct ourselves in our daily lives. Not only can I accomplish hundreds of tasks on my device, my device also remembers things for me to make tasks like 'searching up info' much easier for me. One of the most common tools on any device where typing is possible is spellcheck, and the computer can guess based on an in-coded dictionary or past writings what words I am typing. My own device can warn me when a possible virus is affecting it, when my account was log in to from another device, or bring up ads that cater to me based on past searches. As stated by Marvin Minnsky back in 1961, the future is AI dominated.

Architecture and good design is what makes AI possible. Designers have to design the machine to adapt to what human's input into it otherwise the machine will can not function on it's own; it needs to be self-organizing and be able to operate at the level of a city or environment. Data needs to fed into the machine and good design is when machine can take that data and come up with solutions based on that data. 
Today, we not only see examples of AI from our devices, but we also use it in our businesses and government. AI is also a data distributor and developing system for architecture. AI can recognize patterns to describe a problem and the describes the core of the solution to that problem. This solution can be used a million times over without ever doing it the same way twice. This collection of data can be applied to other places in our environment.
