Eyeo 2017, Molly Wright Steenson gives a presentation about the history and questions the  future  with AI(Artificial Intelligence), cybernetics, interactivity and the greatly valued about the dialogue of AI today. Steenson brings on a question of what does design and architecture have to do with AI today. She explains with the history of the relationship of both AI and architecture, talking about the important figures that worked with AI. Steenson brings up three major architects that have tinkered with AI: Christopher Alexander, Cedric Price, and Nicholas Negroponte. 

My response to her presentation was that I thought it was really insightful. In 1948, Norbert Wiener launched the topic of cybernetics exploring the complex ways of having dialogue with systems and organism. After in 1956, John Mccarthy  coined the term AI. During 1958, AI was all over in the newspapers. Fast Forward to the late 1900’s, Marvin Minsky and J.C.R Licklider had discourse about AI. Licklider spoke: “Man-computer symbiosis … will make very close coupling between the human and the electronic members of the partnership not too many years human brain and computing archives will be coupled together very tightly.” What Licklider said let me reflected on how today’s world is coupled with technology. 

Developing an operating system for architecture, Christopher Alexander. He was interesting, learning about his design patterns and the similarity of Alexander’s designs to both distributed and decentralized networks. He also influenced problem solving, visualization, politics, rule of power in patterns. “If technology was the answer what was the question.” Cedric Price states. Price designed and thought about cybernetic buildings. His partner, Gordon Pask  with  conversation theory made me think about Siri from Apple and Alexa from Amazon. Nicholas Negroponte, “The fantasies of an intelligent and responsive physical environment are too easily limited by the gap between the technology of making things and the science of understanding them. I strongly believe that it is very important to play with these ideas scientifically and explore applications of machine intelligence that totter between being unimaginably oppressive and unbelievably exciting.” Learning how Negroponte embarked on AI with his architecture machine group. Negroponte idea of what an ethical AI would be like. With that I thought of Licklider. Building and designing worlds with AI. Learning about the many chains that AI can connect to: defense, agendas, data, power, control, bias, cliches, and research

Only hearing about AI by its cliches and Elon Musk in my senior of high school. Only knowing that AI failed back in the mid to late 1900’s because of lack of technology and scientific theory. After watching the video, I currently was surprised about the history of AI and its relationship with architecture. People like J.C.R Licklider, Marvin Minsky, Christopher Alexander, Cedric Price with his love of mobile cranes, and Nicholas Negroponte with his Architecture Machine Group. I was fascinated by the advancements they made during their time. Then I wondered about the advancements are being made today.
	
References 

“These Important Years.” Performance by Molly Wright Steenson, These Important Years, Eyeo Festival // INSTINT, 6 Sept. 2017, vimeo.com/232659058.
