At Eyeo 2017 festival, Molly Wright Steenson, a designer from Minneapolis does her presentation on "These important years" as well as the nexus of technology, architecture, and design that has fascinated her for over a decade and she talks about the chapters of her forthcoming book "Architectural Intelligence: How Designers and Architects Created the Digital Landscape" Molly Wright used to live across Loring Park from the Walker Art Center and she is proudly copping the title of this presentation from one of her favorite Hüsker Dü songs in which she got the title "These important years from the album." Architecture and design have much to guide us in an increasingly perceptive and intellectual world. As it turns out, we’ve been studying and understanding those lessons for a long time. In this talk, Molly Wright Steenson looks back to look forward—to the foundations of artificial intelligence and cybernetics and its collaborations with designers and architects rising in the 1950s, and the ways that those projects illumined our ideas about interactivity nowadays.
Initially, Molly Wright talks about a lot of interesting things; however, to me, one of her speech that grabbed my attention was when she mentioned about Jennel Shane, who named colors in various ways, which was really funny and also when she talks about future robots communications, she stated about Facebook's AI bot accidentally invent a new language while training to negotiate with one another, and eventually Elon Musk, where she talked about how technology moguls declare era of artificial intelligence and she did not agree with them as it is actually not a new thing, because AI really is not new. She then looked back in 1948 to cybernetics which is the idea of flows of information and feedback, a network of constant interaction and communication. Besides, she talks about Design itself. She talks how political design has shifted to teach teams in different kinds of ways. And they attribute Christopher Alexander for the inspiration. Furthermore, she stated about Cedric Price, who quotes "If technology is the answer, what was the question?" and it is said that if AI would not have invented, Cedric Price would invent it. Price actually designed cybernetics buildings, models of distributed intelligence, and ways we change the role of an architect as well as the role of the user or resident, which intrigued me.
Eventually, she talks about artists who did work that are forms of activism. She finishes by mentioning that AI  needs architecture, design, activism, creativity, and AI needs us.
