<br  /> In the video we watched, Molly Wright Steenson spoke at the Eyeyo festival held at Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Eyeyo is a festival that cover many topics of art and technology. At the festival, Steenson spoke about how we could apply the architecture design process to artificial intelligence. The three architects she brought up were Christopher Alexander, Cedric Price, and Nicholas Negroponte.  There were many ways that their design principles were able to apply to artificial intelligence. For example, Price’s designed the concept of the Fun Palace, a building that would be able to tend to everyone person’s need. It would eventually evolve to learn what a person would want before it even enters the theater.  
<br  /> John Frazer told Cedric Price in a letter that a “decent” computer programs “should produce at least one plan which you did not expect.” One of the most common things people think about artificial intelligence is that it may become smarter than the creator thought it would be, which would then cause some kind of robot revolution. Steenson states that this was a pretty unique way of looking at technology rather than having it “do our bidding without error.” There are two ways I can see positives in Frazer’s statements. One is to people know what to fix so we can understand the machine better. The second is that unexpected results can also be good results. Maybe Frazer also thought about the robot revolution when he told Price that.
<br  /> Cedric Price’s “Fun Palace” would be able to change form based on the interest of the people. The theater would learn this by studying the people by using its cybernetics. Though the project was scrapped, we can kind of see this technology of learning what the people want today. When people look things up online, sometimes they will see ads that are based on their search history. Facebook mainly makes money from advertisements by selling its user’s information so they can get specifically targeted ads. Some even say that our smartphones are able to listen to our conversations and we would receive ads based on what the conversation was about.  At the time, this may have been considered a really revolutionary idea that people really wanted to see. Nowadays technology like this is very concerning due to people feeling like it is violating their privacy. 
