A lot of people think that artificial intelligence is a new invention, the new future, and even the new way of living. However, Molly Wright Steenson tells people that AI is not a new thing. In her presentation “These Important Years” at Eyeo festival in 2017, Steenson expands on the relationship between architecture and AI by presenting many designs and ideas related to this topic. She shows examples of designs that made since mid 20th century and tell people the fact that many architects and scientists have thought about building the world in a “new intelligent manner.” 

Steenson presents three main architects that impact people’s thinking and understanding on AI. One of the influential architects is Christopher Alexander. His design of information structure in buildings and theories of pattern network influence the development of pattern language in software. For example, wiki format, the technology behind Wikipedia is based on Alexander’s work. By listing a wide range of contemporary development projects, Steenson emphasizes Christopher Alexander and his engagement with cybernetics, computation, and how his theories and works influence today’s visualization, politics, the discussion of role of power and patterns. Another influential architect is Cedric Price. He offers us new ways of thinking of the roles of architect, and how users’ roles change the meaning of architecture. Nicholas Negroponte, the last architect that Steenson introduces in her presentation, is the founder of MIT’s Media Lab. He and his lab group work in theory and practice about interaction with AI and develop lab projects that combine AI and architecture together. 

With these architects and the examples of design inspired from these people, Steenson provides details regarding the development of relationship between architecture and artificial intelligence, leaving us to think about the role of AI, AI’s connection to data, research, power, control, and bias. Her presentation opens our mind to rethink our relationships to machines in the past, today, and the future. 

Before I watch this video, I always thought that AI was very new, the newest technology in the world. Many companies apply AI on collections of data and jobs as a replacement of human work. A lot of people feel challenged by the emerging technology and start to rethink their careers. Steenson’s presentation shows me many details about the history of AI and where the idea comes from. I think it is interesting to think about the relationship between AI and art as well. Technology can inspire artists in many ways. For example, there is a Chinese singer recently produces a song about AI and love. As Steenson says in her presentation, “AI is not new anything, it is about building worlds” which what people always do. People working in different fields could connect to it and create new things with it. 


