Before I watching this vedio, I had already thought about the applying of AI on architecture area long times ago. (My privious majoy was Landscape Architecture.) However, in my opinion and as much as I know so far, the applying of AI on architecture only have two different branches: "dealing information" and "improving the experiences". To be honest, I didn't see much new in this vedio--from the very beginning history of AI that applies on architectures, to the latest event she introduced, or even from the technology we have so far---No matter the sound amplification (belongs to dealing sound/structure information and improving sound effect thus belongs to improving the experiences as well), the mapping technology (mostly about dealing information), or even the theories and works that influence today’s visualization, concepts and patterns. (like the virtual museum VR today, also belongs to improving the experience).

I think this is why we thought the AI is not anything new, yet it is. Because the basic concept and the technology had never revolutionarily changed. Not only about the relationship between architecture and AI, but also the whole general technology concept of AI---yes, it is literally "artificial" intelligence. It never have a "real intelligence" before. Cf course, compare with human beings developed our own bio-intelligence since 200,000 years ago, the AI still has a long way to go. In this case, just like Steenson said, at least by far, AI does need us.

On the other hand, thinking about the role of AI, though it still not "intelligent" enough, AI had become an indespensable part in our daily life, but back to the issue I stated, what's the terminal station of the AI technology? When the AI technology finally "revolutionarily changed", maybe it will bring things completely new. And at that time, maybe we will focus on the bias of "AI are tools"? Because I can hardly image a "more intelligent thing", which has hardware as body and software as its brain, can really serve human beings, as a tool. Maybe till the day when the AI doesn't need us anymore?
