The article I came across was the Interview with Creative Disturbance by Matt May. The article talks about Creative Disturbance and its role forming connections between artist and patron through a virtual community where the artist can showcase their works. Patrons and service providers can then offer assistance which would help foster innovation and wealth in new or emerging systems. The article then goes into an interview with Mark Beam who is the CEO of Creative Disturbance and founder of beaming.

In the interview, Matt talks about how creative people (mostly artists) are usually the ones who have greater influence in the development of technology and are able to employ it in a more human-centric way, rather than machine-centric way. The core of Creative Disturbance being how innovations occurs from the interaction between different kinds of people and knowledge. He then goes on to talking about the role of government and corporations when funding projects. These partnerships are essential in facilitating the development process.

While reading this article, I think much of the information being discussed is still relevant today. Many artists require funding or donations in order for their projects to leave the drawing board. Kickstarter, which is the current largest funding platform in world, allows artists or other innovators to pitch an idea and ask people online to donate or become a sponsor for the project. 

In the article, he also talks about how innovation is not just creating something new, but also changing/improving an already existing project and redistributing it. The environment is always changing thus technology needs to change along with it. Today, information can spread around almost instantly. With new emerging ideas and advancements, technology can quickly become out-of-date thus it necessary for technology to updated to handle new features or bug fixes. An  example of an improved version of a technology being redistributed are digital storage devices. These have existed for many years now in the form of floppy disks, however, someone thought to improve on this invention by making it smaller and having the capacity to hold significantly more data. Now we have USB drives and SD cards.

One thing I want to mention from the article that is ever present today is the process in which technology becomes available to us. In Matt’s words, there are three contributors: Artists/Innovators, Investors/Patrons and Resource Providers. Technology needs to be thought up and designed before it can developed. It needs someone to potential in its existence and provide money for the project. Lastly, it needs someone to provide the resources and distribute the project. This feeds into our system of consumerism.  

Innovation depends on effort and support in order to be realized.

Link: https://web.archive.org/web/20040604014844/http://switch.sjsu.edu:80/v6n2/articles/mays-creative.html
