In this article, author Krystal South talks about how our identity plays a huge role through technology online. in addition, she talks about how human evolution with technology has introduced a fiercely personal identification with the concept and structure of computers and Internet-based systems within us. She said that she is the internet as she is frequently online. 

Besides, computers and the Internet have shaped her identity from such a critical age that she cannot seem to separate her online and offline experiences, her history there from her history here. Digital networks such as Facebook, have not only transformed our societal structure, they have also re-shaped our internal selves. It is a choice to make and not a mistake if someone wants to expose or share their identity online and this happens through social media websites and online chat websites nowadays. Krystal also mentions that from seeing new television shows to enjoying free, immediate access to new scientific publications that could impact our life’s work, the rapid transmission model has meanings and changes lives. I agree with the author because it saves us a lot of time, especially if we need some urgent information, we do not need to wait for a long time, compared to the late 1990s and early 2000s, we just get direct, fast access to what we need through Wifi and Cellular network such as the 4G.

Next, she also stated that we invent new machines to recompense for our deficiencies and software to interpret our concepts into the language of machines. In The Public Persona, she talks about how computers can create identity manipulation. She began an online friendship with various artists, all working with varying levels of identity manipulation. Some created work under a false name, but made completely different work IRL under their real name, while others kept their new name and work the same across both contexts. Because of personal issues, some people just want to hide their identity and not reveal it to the world or to strangers. A lot of people does that nowadays in terms of gaming. For example, if there is a game in which there is an alliance that consists of only males, a female gamer would probably fake her identity and act like a male and no one would know so as to stay in the alliance. 

Furthermore, in the article, I was really interested when she said that nowaday’s artist on the Internet needs an audience to create art which is absolutely true to me as, without an audience, we can not share and show our work or even sell it. And the internet helps us a lot to communicate and gather a bunch of audiences that are interested in our artwork. Another important comment she made was
The idea of choice in the context of identity has always fascinated her and she strongly admires people who approach themselves with wild abandon, adopting new ways of being and thinking the way she changes her shoes. This article is really impressive and tells us how technology provides us so much, and we put so much of ourselves back into it, but we must continually remember that we created the web and it will perpetually be tied to us as humans, with our vast range of beauty and ugliness.
